KENNEDY THANK
YOU EVERYONE AND GOOD
AFTERNOON, I WOULD LIKE TO CALL
THIS MEETING TO ORDER BUT
BEFORE I DO THAT FOR ALL THOSE
THAT ARE WATCHING THIS MEETING
WILL BE BROADCAST LIVE AND ON
CABLE CHANNEL 16 AT CHANNEL
NINETY NINE ONLINE AT EIGHT TO
GO EIGHT TO GO AGAIN EICHTEN TO
SPEAK AT PUBLIC COMMENT THIS
AFTERNOON YOU CAN CALL TOLL
FREE EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE FOUR SEVEN OR
EIGHT EIGHT EIGHT EIGHT SEVEN
EIGHT EIGHT ZERO ZERO NINE NINE
AND INTERMEETING MEETING ID
NINE ONE NINE EIGHT SIX SEVEN
THREE ONE FOUR FIVE FIVE WITH
THAT I'M GOING TO CALL THIS
MEETING TO ORDER FOR WEDNESDAY
NOVEMBER 19TH FOR THE ANN ARBOR
COMMISSION ON DISABILITY ISSUES
AND WE WILL START WITH ROLL
CALL.
SO LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, WHEN
KENNEDY CALLS YOUR NAME PLEASE
UNMUTED SAY WHO YOU ARE, WHO
YOU'RE WITH AND WHERE YOU'RE
COMING FROM AS FAR AS YOUR
GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION.
>> THANK YOU, KENNEDY.
>> THANK YOU, ZACK.
OK, SO WE'LL START WITH DENHA.
>> OH YES.
GOOD AFTERNOON.
ZACH DAMAN, CHAIRMAN IN AABERG
COMMISSION ON DISABILITY ISSUES
COMING TO YOU FROM ANN ARBOR,
MICHIGAN.
>> WASHTENAW COUNTY THANK YOU
VICE CHAIR KEELER.
>> THAT WOULD BE VICE CHAIR
KEELER COMING FROM WARD FIVE.
MY HOUSE ANN ARBOR.
>> THANK YOU COMMISSIONER
MOSADDEQ COMMISSIONER KATHLEEN
MOSS THAT FROM ANN ARBOR,
MICHIGAN.
THANK YOU SO MUCH, COMMISSIONER
SOLOMON MATHEW SOLOMON,
COMMISSIONER ANN ARBOR,
MICHIGAN.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH,
COMMISSIONER HOPKINS.
COMMISSIONER GOSSAGE, ALEX
GOSSAGE COMMISSIONER CALLING IN
FROM ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
>> THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
PACARD COMMISSIONER PACKARD
HOME BASE HERE IN ANN ARBOR,
MICHIGAN.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER BEWES
COMMISSIONER LORI BETH ANN
ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH,
COMMISSIONER ANKOMAH.
>> OUR FELLOW COMMISSIONERS,
THEY MAKE AMERICA FROM ANN
ARBOR.
>> THANK YOU LAST THAT LEAST
COMMISSIONER COMMENTED ON A
KEKKONEN FROM ANN ARBOR,
MICHIGAN.
>> THANK YOU AND LESS FROM EACH
COUNCIL MEMBER GARCíA ALREADY
WE ARE ALSO WITH ROLL CALL.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU, CANDY.
I DO APPRECIATE IT.
NEXT ON THE AGENDA WILL GO
AHEAD AND MOVE TO PUBLIC
COMMENT JUST SO MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC DO KNOW IF THEY ARE ON
THIS AFTERNOON WE DO LIMIT
PUBLIC COMMENT TO THREE MINUTES
PER SPEAKER KENNEDY, DO WE HAVE
ANYONE ON FOR PUBLIC COMMENT
THIS TIME?
>> IT LOOKS LIKE WE HAVE NO ONE
ON THE CALL FOR PUBLIC LINE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
NEXT WE MOVE ON TO THE APPROVAL
OF TODAY'S AGENDA.
ALL OF THE COMMISSIONERS AND
ALL AT TODAY'S MEETING SHOULD
HAVE RECEIVED AN ELECTRONIC
COPY OF THE PRE WRITTEN AGENDA.
IF YOU HAVE NOT, PLEASE LET US
KNOW NOW AND WE WILL SEND YOU
ONE.
BUT I WOULD LIKE TO NOW MOVE
FOR APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA.
IS THERE A MOTION TO APPROVE?
I'LL MOVE TO APPROVE.
THANK YOU, LARRY.
>> IS THERE A SECOND THIS IS
COMMISSIONER MOZELIAK APRIL
SECOND.
ALL RIGHT.
ALL IN FAVOR OF APPROVING
TODAY'S MEETING AGENDA FOR
NOVEMBER.
>> IF YOU ARE A COMMISSIONER
PLEASE ON MUTE AND SAY I I I I
THANK YOU.
>> THE AGENDA IS APPROVED NEXT
WE HAVE THE APPROVAL OF THE
MEETING MINUTES FROM OCTOBER .
ALL OF YOU SHOULD HAVE RECEIVED
THE MEETING MINUTES
ELECTRONICALLY AS WELL AND
WITHIN THE AGENDA.
SO WITH THAT IF YOU HAVE NOT OR
IF THERE ARE ANY AMENDMENTS AND
OR EDITS OF THE MINUTES, PLEASE
FEEL FREE TO MENTION THEM NOW
IF THERE ARE NOT ANY EDITS TO
THE MEETING MINUTES, IS THERE A
MOTION TO APPROVE THE MEETING
MINUTES FROM OCTOBER 15
?
>> I DON'T MOVE TO APPROVE THE
MEETING MINUTES FROM
OCTOBER 15TH.
>> IS THERE A SECOND I SECOND.
THANK YOU, ROB.
ALL IN FAVOR OF APPROVING THE
MEETING MINUTES FROM
OCTOBER 15TH IF YOU ARE A
COMMISSIONER PLEASE ON MUTE AND
SAY I I I I THANK YOU FOR
MEETING MINUTES.
FIFTEENTH HOUR PROVED ALL RIGHT
.
>> NEXT MOVING ON TO OUR NEXT
AGENDA POINT CITY PERSONNEL
REPORT WITH KENNEDY COMING,
KENNEDY THANK YOU GUYS SO MUCH
AS YOU'RE GETTING READY TO
FINISH OUT THE YEAR.
I JUST WANT TO START OFF BY
THANKING EVERYONE WHO DID THE
DOODLE POLL OR COMPLETED IT.
I APPRECIATE THOSE RESPONSES.
ZACH WILL BE GIVEN AN UPDATE ON
THE OUTCOME OF THAT OF THE
SURVEY AND HIS REPORT.
AND SO AGAIN, THANK YOU ALL FOR
TAKING THE TIME TO FILL THAT
OUT AND I ALWAYS JUST FEEL FREE
TO KEEP CHECKING YOUR EMAILS IF
ANYTHING COMES OUT AND IF YOU
NEED ANY HELP OR ASSISTANCE
WITH ANYTHING, JUST PLEASE LET
ME KNOW AND THAT'S ALL I HAVE
.
OF COURSE I'M DID PARDON ME.
THANK YOU KENNEDY FOR THAT AND
IS USUALLY FOLKS WE DO HAVE A
CITY COUNCIL UPDATE WITH
COUNCIL MEMBER GARZA EDWIN
UNFORTUNATELY THEY ARE NOT
HERE.
PLEASE KEEP THEM IN YOUR
THOUGHTS AND HOPEFULLY THEY
WILL BE BACK WITH US AS SOON AS
POSSIBLE.
SO WE'LL GO AHEAD AND MOVE
FORWARD TO THE SPECIAL
PRESENTATION PORTION OF OUR
MEETING TODAY.
>> FIRST UP, WE HAVE THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN ADAPTIVE
SPORTS AND FITNESS PROGRAM.
INITIALLY WE WERE GOING TO HAVE
ON YOUR KUKLA PRESENT BUT WE DO
HAVE OTHER AMAZING TEAM MEMBERS
FROM THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
ADAPTIVE SPORTS AND FITNESS.
WE HAVE ERIC ROBERT AND AND
BAXTER.
>> SO GENTLEMEN, THE FLOOR IS
YOURS.
OH, THANK YOU VERY MUCH, ZACH
AND THANK YOU EVERYBODY ELSE
FROM THE COMMISSION FOR HAVING
US HERE THIS AFTERNOON.
JUST WANT TO CONFIRM HEAD NODS
OR THUMBS UP FROM SOMEONE THAT
YOU'RE ABLE TO SEE THE SCREEN
THAT I'M SHARING AND IT SHOWS
I'M ADAPTIVE SPORTS AND FITNESS
ON IT NOT MY FLOODED GMAIL
INBOX.
PERFECT.
THANK YOU.
WELL, I'M HAPPY TO BE HERE AND
THANK YOU FOR HOSTING US HERE
TO TALK ABOUT UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN ADAPTIVE SPORTS AND
FITNESS.
AND WHILE IT MAY OR MAY NOT
HAVE A REPUTATION AS A PROGRAM
THAT SERVES STUDENTS DIRECTLY
WITHIN THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN, I FEEL IT'S
IMPORTANT TO HIGHLIGHT AND
ILLUMINATE SOME OF THE THINGS
THAT WE'RE DOING THAT HAVE MUCH
BROADER IMPACT IN THE LANDSCAPE
OF DISABILITY DISABILITY
ADVOCACY IN SOME OF OUR
COMMUNITY OUTREACH AND EVENTS
THAT WE DO UNDER THE NAME OR
BRANCH OF U.N. ADAPTIVE SPORTS
AND FITNESS.
HERE TO TALK WITH YOU ALL TODAY
MY NAME IS ERIC ROBERSON.
I'M THE ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR
OF ADAPTIVE SPORTS AND FITNESS
AT UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
YOU CAN ADDRESS ME WITH HIM.
HIS PRONOUNS WHITE SKINNED,
YOUNGER PROFESSIONAL LONGER
HAIR WEARING A NAVY BLUE
QUARTERS UP WITH A BLOCK
BELOW
GO FOR STUDENT ACCESSIBILITY
AND ACCOMMODATION SERVICES.
AND JOINING ME IS KADENBACH
CIRCADIAN IF YOU'D LIKE TO
INTRODUCE YOURSELF BRIEFLY.
>> YEAH.
HI GUYS.
I'M BAXTER'S ERIC SAID I AM A
WHITE DARKER SKINNED MALE WITH
BROWN HAIR.
I HAVE A BACKWARDS MICHIGAN HAT
ON AND A YELLOW MICHIGAN POLO
WITH ADAPTIVE SPORTS AND
FITNESS.
I AM AN INTERN WITH STUDENT
ACCESSIBILITY AND ACCOMMODATION
SERVICES AND I'M ALSO A STUDENT
ATHLETE WITH AN ADAPTIVE SPORTS
AND FITNESS AND KATENDE IF YOU
COULD ACTUALLY CONTINUE FOR US
OF COURSE SO ADAPTIVE SPORTS
AND FITNESS IS ACTUALLY HOUSED
IN STUDENT ACCESSIBILITY AND
ACCOMMODATION SERVICES ON
CAMPUS WHICH IS WITHIN STUDENT
LIFE.
THIS IS GOING TO BE OUR STUDENT
DISABILITY SERVICES SO THE FOUR
DEPARTMENTS THAT ARE AND THERE
ARE ACADEMIC SUPPORT AND ACCESS
PARTNERSHIPS WHICH IS ACADEMIC
COACHING OUR ADAPTIVE SPORTS
AND FITNESS PROGRAM THAT WE'RE
GOING TO TALK ABOUT TODAY
SERVICES FOR STUDENTS WITH
DISABILITIES AND OUR TESTING
CENTERS NOW KIND OF DIVING INTO
WHAT ADAPTIVE SPORTS AND
FITNESS DOES.
AS ERIC MENTIONED, WE DO OFFER
COMPETITIVE SPORTS FOR STUDENT
ATHLETES.
WE HAVE ADAPTIVE TRACK AND
FIELD PARA POWERLIFTING,
WHEELCHAIR BASKETBALL,
WHEELCHAIR RUGBY AND WHEELCHAIR
TENNIS AND THEN EVERYTHING
ACROSS THE TOP.
I'M GOING TO GO FROM LEFT TO
RIGHT IF YOU'RE FOLLOWING ALONG
ON THE GRAPHIC, THE FIRST THING
WE HAVE IS ADAPTIVE SPORTS IN
STUDENT GROUP WHICH IS AN
INTEREST GROUP THAT RUNS SOME
OF THE SPORTS THAT WE DON'T RUN
COMPETITIVELY INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO AMPUTEE SOCCER
CLINICS FOR WHEELCHAIR SOFTBALL
POWER SOCCER AMONG OTHERS.
WE HAVE THE ADAPTIVE SPORTS
RESEARCH CONSORTIUM.
WE HAVE THE ADAPTIVE STUDENT
ATHLETE PROGRAM WHICH IS A
PROGRAM THAT IS FUNDED BY A
GUARDIAN LIFE INSURANCE AND
HELPS WITH PROMOTING COLLEGIATE
PROGRAMS THAT HAVE LIMITED
FUNDS AND BEING ABLE TO JUST
GROW THE COLLEGIATE ADAPTIVE
SPORTS BASE.
WE HAVE THE ADAPTIVE SPORTS AND
INCLUSIVE RECREATION INITIATIVE
WHICH IN SHORTHAND IS ASSIRI.
THIS ESSENTIALLY IS A PROGRAM
THAT WAS CREATED BY ADAPTIVE
SPORTS AND FITNESS TO CREATE
CURRICULUM FOR PUBLIC SCHOOLS
STARTING IN ANN ARBOR AND HAS
NOW SPREAD TO SURROUNDING
COMMUNITIES.
SO EVERY YEAR STARTING WITH A
SIXTH GRADER NOW EVERY MIDDLE
SCHOOLER AND EVEN SPREADING
INTO SOME HIGH SCHOOLS ARE ABLE
TO LEARN ADAPTIVE SPORTS
THROUGH THEIR GYM CLASS,
THROUGH THEIR PHYSICAL
EDUCATION CURRICULUM.
SO REALLY COOL WE GET TO GO
INTO THE SCHOOLS AND DO
ASSEMBLY AND KIND OF DO SOME
DISABILITY ADVOCACY, TEACH
PEOPLE ABOUT DISABILITY AND
ABOUT ADAPTIVE SPORTS AND THEN
THEY GET TO DO WHEELCHAIR
BASKETBALL, WHEELCHAIR TENNIS,
SEATED VOLLEYBALL AND GOALBALL
AS PART OF THEIR CURRICULUM.
SO VERY COOL.
WE HAVE GRANT FUNDING THAT
HELPS FUND A LOT OF THE
EQUIPMENT NEEDS FOR THAT AND
WE'RE ABLE TO KIND OF EXPOSE
THE KIDS IN MIDDLE SCHOOL AND
EARLY HIGH SCHOOL
LOAN PROGRAM
WHICH IS CLOSE THE GAP TO ONE
OF THE LARGEST BARRIERS
OF PARTICIPATING ADAPTIVE
SPORTS WHICH IS THE HIGH COST
OF EQUIPMENT.
SO OUR EQUIPMENT LOAN PROGRAM
ALLOWS PEOPLE TO LOAN OUT
ADAPTIVE SPORTS EQUIPMENT FOR
AN EXTENDED PERIOD OF TIME TO
GET USED TO THE EQUIPMENT, GET
EXERCISE IN THE MEANTIME AND
THEN WORK TOWARDS GETTING THEIR
OWN PIECE OF PERSONALIZED
EQUIPMENT IF THAT'S SOMETHING
THAT THEY WOULD LIKE TO DO.
THE NEXT THING IS PRESCRIPTION
TO PLAY.
THIS IS A PROGRAM THAT IS
EDUCATION BASED JUST EXPANDING
THE KNOWLEDGE WITHIN MICHIGAN
MEDICINE AND THE MEDICAL WORLD
ABOUT ADAPTIVE SPORTS AND ABOUT
THE OPPORTUNITIES THAT PEOPLE
WITH PHYSICAL DISABILITIES HAVE
FOR PHYSICAL EXERCISE AND
SPORT.
AND THEN THE LAST THING IS JUST
ADAPTIVE FITNESS WHICH
ESSENTIALLY IS PROVIDING ACCESS
TO ACCESSIBLE FITNESS AND
EXERCISE FOR THOSE WHO DO NOT
WISH TO COMPETE ON A
COMPETITIVE TEAM BUT STILL WISH
TO STAY ACTIVE AND THEN JUST
GOING OVER SOME OF THE
COMPETITIVE HIGHLIGHTS THAT OUR
TEAM HAS HAD THE ADAPTIVE TRACK
AND FIELD WE HOSTED THE MILLER
FAMILY OPEN WHICH IS OUR HOME
TOURNAMENT FOR TRACK AND FIELD.
IT'S THE FIRST ADAPTIVE TRACK
AND FIELD MEET AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN THAT IS
BOTH OPEN TO ABLE-BODIED
INDIVIDUALS AND THOSE WITH
DISABILITIES, THOSE THAT
IDENTIFY WITH DISABILITIES AND
WE HAVE NINETY THREE ATHLETES
FROM ACROSS THE US.
WE ALSO HAD TWO MICHIGAN
ATHLETES SAM REW WHO COMPETES
ON HIGH JUMP AND LEO MYRL WHO
COMPETES IN THE FIFTEEN HUNDRED
THE REPRESENTED TEAM USA AT THE
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR PARIS
PARALYMPIC GAMES AND WHEELCHAIR
BASKETBALL.
WE WON THE INAUGURAL MICHIGAN
CUP WHICH IS THE
INTERCOLLEGIATE STATE
CHAMPIONSHIP.
IT FEATURED PORT HURON, SC FOUR
AND MICHIGAN STATE AND THEN OUR
MICHIGAN WOLVERINES.
WE ALSO DREW A RECORD CROWD
OF THIRTY ONE HUNDRED FANS AT
CHRYSLER CENTER EARLIER THIS
YEAR FOR MICHIGAN VERSUS
MICHIGAN STATE GAME.
THERE'S SOME REALLY COOL
NEWS COVERAGE OF THAT EVENT IF
YOU HAVEN'T HEARD IT OR SEEN
IT, I ENCOURAGE YOU TO CHECK IT
OUT.
IT IS A VERY COOL EVENT.
WHEELCHAIR RUGBY WE FINISHED
FOURTH DIVISION ONE NATIONALS
AND OUR HEAD COACH OK CAPTAIN
TEAM USA TO A SILVER MEDAL THE
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR PARALYMPICS
FOR WHEELCHAIR TENNIS.
WE ADVANCE TO THE SEMIFINALS
FOR THE TWENTY TWENTY FIVE
COLLEGIATE WHEELCHAIR TENNIS
NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIPS AND WE
ALSO HAVE TO ALL AMERICANS WHO
QUALIFY FOR THE NCAA NATIONALS
COMPETING THIS WEEKEND I AM ONE
OF THEM AND MY TEAMMATE JACOB
BALDIES WELL WE'LL BE DOWN IN
ORLANDO AND THEN LASTLY PAIR
OF POWERLIFTING WAS AN ANALYSIS
OF STRENGTH A SPORT THAT
EXPANDS COMPETITION
OPPORTUNITIES FOR THOSE WHO
COMPETE IN POWERLIFTING AND
THEY ALSO HAD MULTIPLE ATHLETES
THAT QUALIFIED FOR NATIONAL
CHAMPIONSHIPS.
THANK YOU, KAIDEN.
SO AS INDICATED IN OUR OVERALL
INFO GRAPHIC THAT KEN GAVE A
GREAT OVERVIEW OF AN ESSENTIAL
COMPONENT OR ESSENTIAL
COMPONENTS OF ADAPTIVE SPORTS
AND FITNESS REALLY CORE TO OUR
MISSION IS TO INCREASE
AWARENESS, KNOWLEDGE, ACCESS
AND PARTICIPATION IN ADAPTIVE
SPORTS AMONG PEOPLE WITH AND
WITHOUT DISABILITIES.
ONE OF THE MAIN BARRIERS THAT
WE'RE STILL TRYING TO ADDRESS
IN THE WORK THAT WE DO WHETHER
IT'S IN K TO 12 K-12 SCHOOLS,
WHETHER IT'S WITH MEDICAL
STUDENTS AND PROFESSIONALS,
WHETHER IT'S HERE ON CAMPUS,
WHETHER IT'S WITHIN THE
DISABILITY COMMUNITY OR WHETHER
IT'S WITH OUR ABLE BODIED
COLLEAGUES IN THAT COMMUNITY
SPACE IS THAT DISABILITY IS NOT
AN ABILITY IN THAT WHEN WE
PROVIDE PEOPLE WITH THE
EQUITABLE RESOURCES TOOLS,
SUPPORT ACCESS, THERE ARE
VARIOUS WAYS IN WHICH EACH
OF US CAN BE FACILITATORS CAN
ADDRESS THOSE BARRIERS AND CAN
SUPPORT NOT JUST ACCESS TO
SPORT, RECREATION AND LEISURE
BUT ALL SORTS OF ACTIVITIES
THAT SUPPORT HEALTH AND
WELLNESS AND FULL INTEGRATION
AND INCLUSION WITHIN SOCIETY
BEYOND WHATEVER HAPPENS HERE AT
UNIVERSITY IN MICHIGAN AS WELL
.
SO VERY IMPORTANT BEYOND WHAT
WE DO FROM A COMPETITIVE
PERSPECTIVE AND AS KATE
MENTIONED IS OUR ADAPTIVE SPORT
AND INCLUSIVE RECREATION
INITIATIVE THAT HAS BEEN
HAPPENING NOW FOR THE PAST FOUR
YEARS IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE
DISABILITY NETWORK WHERE WE ARE
EMBEDDING ADAPTIVE SPORT AS
PART OF THE GENERAL PHYSICAL
EDUCATION CURRICULUM WITHIN ANN
ARBOR PUBLIC SCHOOLS, YPSILANTI
COMMUNITY SCHOOLS, SALEEN AND
THEN WE'VE STARTED TO EXPAND TO
OTHER SCHOOLS AS WELL IN THE
WASHTENAW COUNTY AREA AND THE
PREMISE OF HOW THAT ALL UNFOLDS
IS THE PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
OF TEACHERS AND TEACHING THEM
HOW TO TEACH ADAPTIVE SPORTS.
HOW TO TALK ABOUT CONCEPTS AND
LANGUAGE AROUND DISABILITY AND
EQUITY AND ACCESS BUT THEN ALSO
PROVIDING THE TOOLS, THE
EQUIPMENT, THE RESOURCES THAT
THEN TEACHERS CAN THEN USE TO
TEACH ADAPTIVE SPORTS AS PART
OF THE CURRICULUM CAN ALSO
TALKED ABOUT THE EQUIPMENT LOAN
PROGRAM THAT WE PROVIDE THAT'S
AVAILABLE TO RESIDENTS
OF WASHTENAW KENNEDY AND THEN
WE ALSO WORK TO THEN ENGAGE THE
OVERALL COMMUNITY IN VARIOUS
CLINICS AND EDUCATION
OPPORTUNITIES TO GET PEOPLE TO
UNDERSTAND HOW THEIR VARIOUS
SPHERES OF INFLUENCE
OCCUPATIONS, THEIR PROFESSIONS
CONNECT WITH ADAPTIVE SPORT
THROUGH VARIOUS OUTRE
PROGRAMS WHETHER IT'S HOSTING
CLINICS OR WORKSHOPS OR
PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
OPPORTUNITIES.
WE'RE ALSO INVOLVED IN VARIOUS
LEVELS OF THE SPORT SYSTEM AS
WELL.
WE WORK CLOSELY WITH THE US
DEPARTMENT OF STATE FOR EXAMPLE
AS PART OF THE GLOBAL SPORTS
MEDICINE PROGRAM WHERE WE HOST
INTERNATIONAL MENTEES OR
INTERNATIONAL LEADERS FROM
AROUND THE WORLD THAT ARE
TRYING TO SUPPORT ADAPTIVE
SPORT BASED INITIATIVES WITHIN
THEIR RESPECTIVE COUNTRIES
WHERE THEY COME HERE AND WE NOT
ONLY SHOW THEM WHAT WE DO
WITHIN UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
AN ADAPTIVE SPORTS AND FITNESS
BUT WE CONNECT THEM WITH OUR
COLLEAGUES AND PARTNERS ACROSS
THE ENTIRE COMMUNITY TO GET
THEM TO UNDERSTAND HOW TO THEN
BRING SOME OF THOSE INSTANCES
BACK TO THEIR HOME COUNTRY.
I THINK AN IMPORTANT ASPECT
OF WHAT WE DO AND SOMETIMES
THAT DOESN'T GET TALKED ABOUT
ENOUGH IS ONE OF OUR OVERALL
GOALS AND AMBITIONS WITH
ADAPTIVE SPORTS AND FITNESS IS
TO BRING MORE EVENTS TO THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR AND THE
DIFFERENT PLACES THAT WE
OPERATE KNOWING THAT ONE
THERE'S KIND OF ECONOMIC
BENEFIT THAT COMES FROM DOING
EVENTS THAT ARE CATERED TOWARD
THE DISABILITY COMMUNITY.
IT'S OFTEN THE COMMUNITY THAT
IS IGNORED WHEN IT COMES TO
TRAVEL TOURISM EVENTS,
ENTERTAINMENT AND AT THE END
OF THE DAY WHEN WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT SPORTS WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT LIKE THE SPORT AND
ENTERTAINMENT INDUSTRY FOR A
DISABILITY POPULATION, FOR THE
DISABILITY COMMUNITY AT THE END
OF THE DAY AS WELL, THERE'S A
LOT OF LARGE DOMESTIC EVENTS
THAT COULD BE HOSTED WITHIN THE
ANN ARBOR COMMUNITY IN SOME
OF WHICH WE'VE ALREADY BEEN
ABLE TO DEMONSTRATE OF WHAT
WE'VE BEEN ABLE TO DO WITH OUR
WHEELCHAIR BASKETBALL
TOURNAMENT OR OUR TRACK AND
FIELD OR SOME OF THE OTHER
EVENTS THAT WE HOSTED.
BUT THERE'S A LARGER EVENTS
THAT WE COULD BE STRIVING FOR
THAT COULD HAVE ECONOMIC IMPACT
IN THE ANN ARBOR AREA CAN MAKE
IT A DESTINY FOR THE DISABILITY
POPULATION NOT JUST AS A PLACE
TO TRAVEL BUT A PLACE THAT THEY
CAN SEE THEMSELVES AS LIVING
AND WORKING
AND HAVING FAMILIES
AND A PLACE WHERE THEY CAN
THRIVE AND LIVE IN A PLACE
THAT'S ACCEPTING AND SOME
OF THOSE BIGGER OPPORTUNITIES
EXISTS OR THINGS LIKE MOVING
INTO NATIONALS OR THE NATIONAL
EDUCATION CONFERENCE WHEN IT
COMES TO ADAPTIVE SPORT HOSTING
THINGS LIKE WHEELCHAIR
BASKETBALL, NATIONAL
CHAMPIONSHIPS OR OTHER EVENTS
THAT ARE HOSTED BY USCIRF TO
PUT ON THOSE KINDS OF EVENTS WE
NEED PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CITY
OF AINATA.
WE NEED PARTNERSHIP WITH THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
WE NEED PARTNERSHIP WITH PARKS
AND RECREATION TO HAVE THE
SPACES PLACES TO BE ABLE TO
PHYSICALLY HOST THESE EVENTS
AND COMPETITIONS BUT ALSO
SUPPORT WHEN IT COMES TO HOTELS
IN ACCESSIBLE ACCOMMODATIONS,
TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE,
WORKING WITH LOCAL AGENCIES AND
COMPANIES TO SUPPORT
TRANSPORTATION TO AND FROM
VENUES TO AND FROM THE AIRPORT
ALL THE DIFFERENT KIND
OF TANGENTIAL SERVICE AND
OPERATIONS THAT ARE THEN
REQUIRED FROM OUR MUNICIPAL
PERSPECTIVE THAT THEN MAKE
THESE SORTS OF EVENTS
SUCCESSFUL.
BUT ALMOST ALSO JUST AS A CASE
STUDY FOR WHAT THAT CAN LOOK
LIKE IN EVERY DAY TO DAY LIFE
FOR SUPPORTING PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES.
SO SOMETHING THAT WE'RE
ACTUALLY WORKING ON RIGHT NOW
AND HOPEFULLY DECISION WILL BE
RELEASED IN DECEMBER OR JANUARY
IS THAT WE ARE WORKING WITH THE
ANN ARBOR SPORTS COMMISSION OR
DESTINATION ANN ARBOR TO BID TO
HOST THE MOVIE UNITED NATIONAL
EDUCATION CONFERENCE IN TWENTY
TWENTY SEVEN AND IF NOT
SUCCESSFUL WILL BE TARGETED AS
A TOP SITE FOR TWENTY TWENTY
EIGHT.
AND THIS IS A FORUM THAT BRINGS
IN SEVERAL HUNDRED RESEARCH
FACULTY PRACTITIONERS, ADAPTIVE
SPORT LEADERS, COACHES,
TRAINEES TO THE ANN ARBOR AREA
TO TALK ABOUT IMPORTANT TOPICS
AROUND DISABILITY, SPORT,
RECREATION, LEISURE AND OTHER
TYPES OF HEALTH WELLNESS
PROGRAMING.
AS YOU CAN SEE THERE'S A PRETTY
LARGE AND SUBSTANTIAL ECONOMIC
PROJECTED ECONOMIC IMPACT JUST
FROM THIS ONE EVENT ALONE.
BUT I BRING THIS UP AS AN
EXAMPLE OF THIS IS NOT
SOMETHING THAT WE CAN DO ON OUR
OWN IN ISOLATION.
WE NEED THE PARTNERSHIPS TO BE
ABLE TO MAKE THIS WORK FROM THE
TRANSPORTATION ACCOMMODATION,
FOOD SERVICE, ALL THE OTHER
THINGS THAT GO INTO MAKING AN
EVENT ACCESSIBLE, ENJOYABLE,
SUSTAINABLE, WHAT HAVE YOU SOME
OF THE OTHER UPCOMING EVENTS
THAT WE HAVE THAT WE WOULD LOVE
FURTHER SUPPORT AND ENDORSEMENT
OF WHETHER IT'S JUST PROMOTION
MARKETING VOLUNTEER
SPECTATORSHIP WE HAVE OUR
WHEELCHAIR TENNIS TOURNAMENT
THAT'S COMING UP AT THE
BEGINNING OF DECEMBER.
WE HAVE OUR WHEELCHAIR
BASKETBALL GAME AGAINST MSU
THAT WILL HAPPEN ON JANUARY
16TH.
WE HAVE OUR WHEELCHAIR
BASKETBALL WHEELCHAIR RUGBY
TOURNAMENT HAPPENING IN
MID-MARCH AND THEN WE HAVE OUR
TRACK AND FIELD MEET THAT WILL
BE HAPPENING IN JUNE AND
SOMETHING THAT WE DO AS PART
OF EACH OF THESE EVENTS IS SOME
FORM OF COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT AS
WELL.
SO FOR EXAMPLE WITH THE
WOLVERINE OPEN WHEELCHAIR
TENNIS TOURNAMENT WE'RE
OPERATING A FREE WHEELCHAIR
TENNIS CLINIC ON SATURDAY FOR
OUR YOUTH IN THE AREA.
SO YOUTH THAT WOULD LOVE TO
COME OUT AND GIVE WHEELCHAIR
TENNIS A TRY ARE ABLE TO DO SO
FREE AND ALSO COME WATCH SOME
WHEELCHAIR TENNIS WITH EACH
OF OUR EVENTS AS WHILE WE
ALWAYS TRY TO AIM TO GIVE BACK
TO THE COMMUNITY IN SOME WAY AS
WELL.
SO FOR EXAMPLE, WE'RE DOING A
FOOD DRIVE AS PART OF OUR
WOLVERINE OPEN WHERE WE'RE NOT
CHARGING SPECTATOR FEES BUT
RATHER WE'RE ASKING PEOPLE TO
DONATE FOOD OR HYGIENE PRODUCTS
THAT WE CAN THEN DONATE TO
LOCAL FOOD SHELTERS AS PART
OF THE EVENT TO THEN GIVE BACK
AS PART OF THAT LARGER PIE
OF THE ECOSYSTEM THAT WE EXIST
IN.
SEUMAS LIKE OUR CUPIE CLASSIC
WHEELCHAIR RUGBY TOURNAMENT
WHERE WE DO A TOY DRIVE THAT WE
GIVE BACK TO MY CHILDREN'S
HOSPITAL.
SO OVERALL WE DON'T NECESSARILY
HAVE A DIRECT ASK OR NEED AT
THIS TIME OTHER THAN THE FACT
THAT WE NEED MORE AWARENESS
ABOUT THE FACT THAT ADAPTIX
SPORT IS ACTIVE AND LIVELY
WITHIN THIS AREA.
BUT WE NEED THE SUPPORT OF MORE
COMMUNITY PARTNERS IN THE
MUNICIPALITY TO MAKE THESE
EVENTS SUCCESSFUL.
WE OFTEN RUN INTO ROADBLOCKS
OF NOT BEING ABLE TO GET ACCESS
TO SPACE TO DO THE PROGRAMING
DESPITE THE DEMAND AND HAVING
THE FUNDING TO BE ABLE TO DO
SO.
AND IF WE EVER WANT TO BE ABLE
TO HOST SOME OF THOSE LARGER
EVENTS WE'RE GOING TO NEED
STRONGER PARTNERSHIPS ACROSS
THE COMMUNITY TO BE ABLE TO GET
ACCESS TO THE SPACES, PLACES
AND SERVICES THAT MAKE THEM
ACCESSIBLE AND SUCCESSFUL.
BUT BEYOND THAT WAS SOME
OF THOSE UPCOMING EVENTS AS I
AS I ADDRESSED WERE ALWAYS IN
NEED OF VOLUNTEER SHIP.
WE ALWAYS WELCOME SPECTATORSHIP
AND THERE'S ALWAYS WAYS FOR
PEOPLE TO GET INVOLVED BEYOND
JUST SPECTATING OR
VOLUNTEERING.
AS I MENTIONED, THE YOUTH
WHEELCHAIR TENNIS CLINIC THAT'S
COMING UP AS WELL.
SO THANK YOU FOR THE AIRTIME
FOR BEING ABLE TO SHARE HAPPY
TO ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS THAT
YOU ALL MAY HAVE AND FEEL FREE
TO CONTACT US OR ENGAGE WITH US
ON ANY OF THE SOCIAL PROVIDED
OR REACH OUT TO KAIDEN ARRIVE
WITH ANY QUESTIONS.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH ERIC AND
KAIDEN AND ALL OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN ADAPTIVE
SPORTS AND FITNESS TEAM FOR ALL
THAT YOU'RE DOING NOT JUST FOR
HISTORY AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN BUT FOR OUR
COMMUNITY.
AND WHEN YOU TALK ABOUT
MUNICIPALITIES, PLEASE DO NOT
FORGET THAT CITY GOVERNMENTS
ALSO PLAY A HUGE ROLE AND OUR
GREAT PARTNERS AND SUPPORT.
>> THANK YOU.
I HAVE A QUESTION.
>> SURE.
GO AHEAD.
VICE CHAIR.
MY QUESTION IS AS I LISTEN YOUR
SPORTS AND ALL THAT I OBVIOUSLY
GOALBALL DIDN'T COME UP AS A
FIRST CHOICE BUT I'M KIND
OF CURIOUS IF YOU NEED AS I
KNOW THERE'S A LOT OF OLD
GLOBAL PLAYERS WOULD PROBABLY
BE WILLING TO HELP OR THAT SORT
OF THING.
WE'VE GOT SOME GLOBAL PLAYERS
THAT COULD SPEAK TO YOUR YOUTH
OR COME IN AND MAYBE ASSISTANT
COACH OR DO SOMETHING LIKE
THAT.
IF YOU PUT A TEAM TOGETHER AND
YOU DO KNOW THAT THERE'S A LOT
OF THERE ARE THERE ARE NATIONAL
GLOBAL EVENTS AND THAT SORT
OF THING AND SOME OF US HAVE
BEEN TO SOME OF THEM AND WE'D
LIKE TO MAKE GOALBALL A LITTLE
MORE KNOWN BECAUSE I IMAGINE
YOU WOULD HAVE TO THE
COMMISSION DOESN'T KNOW EXACTLY
WHAT GOALBALL IS BUT SOME OF US
HAVE PLAYED AND HAVE PLAYED FOR
YEARS AND I'M JUST WONDERING IF
YOU NEED ANY ARE WE WELCOME ANY
AMBASSADORS THAT USED TO PLAY?
THANK YOU.
THAT'S A GREAT QUESTION.
SO FOR THOSE THAT MIGHT NOT BE
AWARE, GOALBALL IS A SPORT THAT
WAS DESIGNED FOR THE
PARALYMPICS FOR PEOPLE WITH
VISUAL IMPAIRMENT, BLIND OR LOW
VISION AND IT'S A SPORT THAT'S
PLAYED THREE OF THREE
COMPETITIONS SO WHERE EACH
OPPOSING TEAM IS TRYING TO
SCORE ON THE OTHER WHERE
BECAUSE THE MAIN DISABILITY
THAT IS SUPPORTED OR GIVEN
ACCESS WITHIN THE SPORT THE
BALL HAS BELLS INSIDE OF IT SO
PEOPLE HAVE THAT AUDITORY
FEEDBACK TO BE ABLE TO PLAY THE
SPORT AND THEN THE COURT IS
OUTLINED WITH MARKERS THAT
PROVIDE TACTILE FEEDBACK.
GOALBALL IS A SPORT THAT WE
INTRODUCED AS PART OF OUR
ADAPTIVE SPORT AN INCLUSIVE
RECREATION INITIATIVE AND WE
ACTUALLY INTEGRATE IT AND
INCLUDE AS PART OF THE
CURRICULUM THAT WE DO IN K TO
12 ANN ARBOR PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
>> SO THERE ARE THE KIDS THAT
THEN LEARN HOW TO PLAY GOALBALL
AS PART OF PE BUT OVERALL WHAT
WE'RE TRYING TO DO IS EXPAND
THE OVERALL EDUCATIONAL
RESOURCES AND TOOLKITS THAT WE
HAVE SO THAT IT'S NOT JUST IN
OUR PUBLIC SCHOOLS THAT
BENEFITS WE'RE SELLING OUR
YPSILANTI BUT IT'S A ACCESSIBLE
PLATFORM OR ACCESSIBLE RESOURCE
THAT CAN BE USED ALL ACROSS THE
STATE OF MICHIGAN AND ACROSS
THE COUNTRY.
SO WE'RE ACTUALLY IN PLANS
RIGHT NOW OF DEVELOP KIND
OF LIKE THE NEXT SCAFFOLDING
OF EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES THAT
WE'RE CREATING INCLUDING ONLINE
VIDEOS TOOLKIT INSTRUCTIONS,
DRILLS KIND OF TIPS ON HOW TO
GET STARTED SORT OF THING AND
WE'RE ALWAYS WELCOME KIND
OF PROFESSIONAL FEEDBACK AND
INPUT FROM THOSE THAT ARE WELL
VERSED IN THE SPACE.
SO PERHAPS ZACH DAMON CAN
FACILITATE AN EMAIL
INTRODUCTION AND WE CAN TALK
FURTHER BECAUSE I'D LOVE TO
PICK YOUR BRAIN ABOUT HOW WE
MIGHT BE ABLE TO GET YOU AND
OTHERS INVOLVED.
WE DO ALSO FROM TIME TO TIME
HIGH SCHOOL BALL CLINICS THAT
ARE FREE AND OPEN TO THE
COMMUNITY TO JOIN.
WE DID STRUGGLE WITH THE LAST
ONE THAT WE HOSTED A COUPLE
OF WEEKS AGO WITH THE FIRST
SNOWFALL THAT WE HAD THIS
WINTER OR LATE FALL.
BUT WE HOPE TO HOST ANOTHER
GOALBALL CLINIC AGAIN NEXT
SPRING AND HOPEFULLY AGAIN WE
CAN KIND OF LEAN ON YOUR
CONTACTS AND MAYBE BRING IN A
SOLID GROUP OF PEOPLE AND HAVE
GOOD PARTICIPATION IN THAT
EVENT.
YEAH, AND ERIC, THIS IS ZACH.
I'M HAPPY TO CONNECT YOU TO
LARRY KEYLA, GREAT COMMUNITY
MEMBER.
AND LARRY, I'LL I'LL GET YOU
CONNECTED TO ERIC AND KAIDEN
AND WE CAN GO FROM THERE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
SURE.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN ADAPTIVE
SPORTS AND FITNESS?
I HAVE TO SAY YOU GUYS, I AM
VERY EXCITED NOT ONLY FOR THE
TENNIS TOURNAMENT COMING UP BUT
ALSO FOR THE JANUARY 16TH
WHEELCHAIR BASKETBALL GAME AND
I HOPE THAT ALL OF US ON THIS
CALL CAN ATTEND AND SHOW
SUPPORT TO THEM.
I HAVE WE WERE DENHA I HAVE A
QUESTION.
THIS IS ANNIKA CONNOR AND SORT
OF RELATED O'LEARYS.
I'M WONDERING WHAT HOW YOU
THINK ABOUT WAYS TO DEVELOP
EITHER SPORT OR FITNESS
PROGRAMS FOR PEOPLE WITH A
RANGE OF DISABILITIES.
IT SEEMS LIKE A LOT OF YOUR
PROGRAMING IS WHEELCHAIR
FOCUSED.
SO I'M JUST CURIOUS HOW YOU
THINK ABOUT LIKE THE BROADEST
REACH AS FAR AS ADAPTIVE
FITNESS AND SPORTS.
>> YEAH,
EXCELLENT QUESTION.
SO AS YOU POINTED OUT, WE
DIRECTLY SUPPORT THINGS LIKE
WHEELCHAIR BASKETBALL,
WHEELCHAIR TENNIS, WHEELCHAIR
RUGBY THAT ARE ALL VERY MUCH
FOCUSED AS LIKE SPORT CHAIR
SORT OF FOCUS SPORTS TRACK AND
FIELD IS ONE THAT I REALLY LOVE
BECAUSE IT'S VERY DIVERSE IN
TERMS OF ALL THE PEOPLE THAT
CAN GET INVOLVED IN IN TRACK
AND FIELD AND ALL THE DIFFERENT
TYPES OF ELIGIBILITY
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA AND
CLASSIFICATIONS THAT EXIST.
WE HAVE ATHLETES THAT INCLUDE
AMPUTEES, ATHLETES WITH
CEREBRAL PALSY, ATHLETES WITH
SPINAL CORD INJURY, ALL SORTS
OF DIFFERENT ATHLETES THAT
AMBULATE OR USE SPORT CHAIRS TO
BE ABLE TO PARTICIPATE.
AND IN THAT WAY I FIND TRACK
AND FIELD TO BE A VERY
INCLUSIVE, INCLUSIVE SPORT FROM
THAT REGARD AND IT'S SOMETHING
THAT CAN BE DONE FOR THE INTENT
OF PHYSICAL FITNESS AND SOCIAL
CAMARADERIE.
BUT IT'S ALSO THE FULL SPECTRUM
OF THE PEOPLE THAT WANT TO
PURSUE IT AT A COMPETITIVE OR
ELITE LEVEL AND I FIND THAT'S A
REALLY GREAT KIND
OF FACILITATOR FOR ALL THOSE
DIFFERENT TYPES OF PARTICIPANTS
TO KIND OF HAVE THAT NEXUS
WITHIN THE DISABILITY SPACE.
WE ALSO OFFER PAIR POWERLIFTING
WHICH FOR THOSE THAT ARE NOT
AWARE OF POWERLIFTING IS ALSO
VERY DIVERSE IN TERMS OF THE
RANGE OF PEOPLE THAT AND
PARTICIPATE.
WE HAVE PEOPLE THAT TRAIN AND
OR COMPETE WITH US IN THE PARA
POWERLIFTING KIND OF BRANCH
OF WHAT WE DO THAT HAVE
LEARNING DISABILITIES, THAT
HAVE PHYSICAL DISABILITIES THAT
HAVE NON APPARENT DISABILITIES
,THAT ARE AMPUTEES, THAT ARE
SPINAL CORD INJURY, ALL SORTS
OF DIFFERENT DISABILITIES AND
OR YOU KNOW, FROM A KIND
OF FULL GAMUT WITHIN THE
DISABILITY COMMUNITY WHICH
AGAIN I FIND REALLY COOL
BECAUSE IT'S IT'S A SPORT AND
IT'S TRAINING METHOD THAT
REALLY JUST FOCUSES ON PERSONAL
GROWTH.
IT'S ABOUT BEATING ANOTHER
PERSON.
IT'S NOT ABOUT WHO CAN LIFT THE
MOST WEIGHT BUT IT'S ABOUT THAT
PERSONAL JOURNEY OF SETTING A
GOAL AND BREAKING THOSE
BARRIERS IN TERMS OF LIKE WHAT
YOU PERCEIVE YOU CAN AND CANNOT
DO.
AND WE'VE SEEN SOME TREMENDOUS
RESULTS IS YOU KNOW, JUST THE
OTHER DAY WE HAD AN ATHLETE SET
A NEW PATH THAT WENT FROM BEING
ABLE TO BENCH PRESS FORTY FIVE
POUNDS AND BEING ABLE TO BENCH
PRESS NINETY FIVE POUNDS.
WE HAVE ATHLETES THAT HAVE GONE
FROM BEING ABLE TO BENCH PRESS
TWO HUNDRED AND NINETY FIVE
POUNDS TO THREE HUNDRED AND
FIFTEEN POUNDS.
EVERYBODY'S ON THEIR OWN
JOURNEY.
BENCHMARK FOR SUCCESS AND IT'S
EVERYBODY'S ON THEIR OWN
KIND OF UNIQUE TO SEE EVERYBODY
BENCHMARK FOR SUCCESS AND IT'S
COME TOGETHER BECAUSE AGAIN
KIND OF UNIQUE TO SEE EVERYBODY
LIKE I SAID WE HAVE PEOPLE FROM
COME TOGETHER BECAUSE AGAIN
THE ADHD COMMUNITY TO THE
LIKE I SAID WE HAVE PEOPLE FROM
PHYSICAL DISABILITY COMMUNITY
THE ADHD COMMUNITY TO THE
AND EVERYTHING IN BETWEEN AND
PHYSICAL DISABILITY COMMUNITY
THEN OF COURSE THAT LEADS TO
AND EVERYTHING IN BETWEEN AND
THINGS LIKE OUR TRACK AND FIELD
THEN OF COURSE THAT LEADS TO
MEET WHICH VERY SPECIFICALLY
THINGS LIKE OUR TRACK AND FIELD
AND I'M QUITE PROUD OF AND I
MEET WHICH VERY SPECIFICALLY
THINK IT'S SOMETHING THAT WE DO
AND I'M QUITE PROUD OF AND I
REALLY WELL AS A MILLER FAMILY
THINK IT'S SOMETHING THAT WE DO
OPEN IS OF THE NINETY THREE
REALLY WELL AS A MILLER FAMILY
PARTICIPANTS APPROXIMATELY
OPEN IS OF THE NINETY THREE
TWENTY HAD NO DISABILITY
PARTICIPANTS APPROXIMATELY
WHATSOEVER APPROXIMATELY TWENTY
TWENTY HAD NO DISABILITY
HAD INTELLECTUAL DISABILITIES
WHATSOEVER APPROXIMATELY TWENTY
WHETHER IT WAS DOWN SYNDROME,
HAD INTELLECTUAL DISABILITIES
AUTISM OR WHATEVER IT MIGHT
WHETHER IT WAS DOWN SYNDROME,
MIGHT HAVE BEEN AND THEN THE
AUTISM OR WHATEVER IT MIGHT
REMAINING FIFTY SOME ODD
MIGHT HAVE BEEN AND THEN THE
ATHLETES HAD PHYSICAL
REMAINING FIFTY SOME ODD
DISABILITIES THAT COMPETED
ATHLETES HAD PHYSICAL
WITHIN THEIR CLASSIFICATIONS
DISABILITIES THAT COMPETED
AND WE GAVE EVERYBODY THEIR
WITHIN THEIR CLASSIFICATIONS
PLATFORM, THEIR HEAT, THEIR
AND WE GAVE EVERYBODY THEIR
EVENT THAT THEY PARTICIPATED IN
PLATFORM, THEIR HEAT, THEIR
THAT CREATED IT MADE IT
EVENT THAT THEY PARTICIPATED IN
COMPETITIVE, THAT MADE IT
THAT CREATED IT MADE IT
EQUITABLE THAT MADE IT FUN BUT
COMPETITIVE, THAT MADE IT
THEN ALSO BROUGHT EVERYBODY ALL
EQUITABLE THAT MADE IT FUN BUT
TOGETHER ON THE SAME STAGE.
THEN ALSO BROUGHT EVERYBODY ALL
SO THOSE ARE SOME OF THE
TOGETHER ON THE SAME STAGE.
EXAMPLES WE ALSO HOSTED A
SO THOSE ARE SOME OF THE
INCLUSIVE FIVE K IN DEXTER THIS
EXAMPLES WE ALSO HOSTED A
PAST SUMMER AND AGAIN THAT WAS
INCLUSIVE FIVE K IN DEXTER THIS
OPEN TO PEOPLE THAT WERE PUSHED
PAST SUMMER AND AGAIN THAT WAS
IN STROLLERS, PEOPLE THAT SELF
OPEN TO PEOPLE THAT WERE PUSHED
AMBULATE PEOPLE THAT PUSHED IN
IN STROLLERS, PEOPLE THAT SELF
SPORT CHAIRS OR HAND CYCLES,
AMBULATE PEOPLE THAT PUSHED IN
RECUMBENT BIKES, PEOPLE THAT
SPORT CHAIRS OR HAND CYCLES,
WALKED, PEOPLE THAT RAN SO
RECUMBENT BIKES, PEOPLE THAT
AGAIN WE OFFER A LOT OF THINGS
WALKED, PEOPLE THAT RAN SO
BUT WHEN IT COMES DOWN TO OUR
AGAIN WE OFFER A LOT OF THINGS
COMPETITIVE SPORTS AGAIN I
BUT WHEN IT COMES DOWN TO OUR
RECOGNIZE THAT THAT'S SOMETIMES
COMPETITIVE SPORTS AGAIN I
THE PORTRAYAL THAT COMES OFF AS
RECOGNIZE THAT THAT'S SOMETIMES
IS SOMETIMES A WHEELCHAIR
THE PORTRAYAL THAT COMES OFF AS
SPORTS GET ALL THE ALL THE FAME
IS SOMETIMES A WHEELCHAIR
AND GLORY SOMETIMES.
SPORTS GET ALL THE ALL THE FAME
BUT WE DO OFFER A LOT OF OTHER
AND GLORY SOMETIMES.
WAYS FOR PEOPLE TO GET INVOLVED
BUT WE DO OFFER A LOT OF OTHER
AS WELL.
WAYS FOR PEOPLE TO GET INVOLVED
WE'RE EVEN DOING AN ADAPTIVE
AS WELL.
SCUBA CLINIC ON JANUARY 4TH SO
WE'RE EVEN DOING AN ADAPTIVE
THAT THAT MAY HAVE BEEN CIRCLED
SCUBA CLINIC ON JANUARY 4TH SO
AROUND TO SOME OF YOU FOR THOSE
THAT THAT MAY HAVE BEEN CIRCLED
THAT ARE ON OUR MAILING LISTS.
AROUND TO SOME OF YOU FOR THOSE
RIGHT.
THAT ARE ON OUR MAILING LISTS.
THANK YOU.
RIGHT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH, ERIC, FOR
THANK YOU.
THAT WONDERFUL EXPLANATION.
THANK YOU SO MUCH, ERIC, FOR
AND FOLKS, IF THERE ARE ANY
THAT WONDERFUL EXPLANATION.
OTHER QUESTIONS YOU HAVE FOR
AND FOLKS, IF THERE ARE ANY
MICHIGAN ADAPTIVE SPORTS AND
OTHER QUESTIONS YOU HAVE FOR
FITNESS FOR ERIC OR FOR KAIDEN
MICHIGAN ADAPTIVE SPORTS AND
OR FOR THE TEAM, PLEASE FEEL
FITNESS FOR ERIC OR FOR KAIDEN
FREE TO LET ME KNOW AND I'M
OR FOR THE TEAM, PLEASE FEEL
HAPPY TO RELAY THAT
FREE TO LET ME KNOW AND I'M
INFORMATION.
HAPPY TO RELAY THAT
BUT THANK YOU SO MUCH,
INFORMATION.
GENTLEMEN.
BUT THANK YOU SO MUCH,
KEEP UP THE GREAT WORK THE
GENTLEMEN.
WHOLE TEAM PLEASE GIVE MY BEST
KEEP UP THE GREAT WORK THE
TO DOCTOROW AS WELL AND GOBAL
WHOLE TEAM PLEASE GIVE MY BEST
THANK YOU ALL FOR HAVING US.
TO DOCTOROW AS WELL AND GOBAL
>> THANK YOU GOBBLER.
THANK YOU ALL FOR HAVING US.
ALL RIGHT.
>> THANK YOU GOBBLER.
NEXT WE ARE MOVING ON TO THE
ALL RIGHT.
ANN ARBOR DAY PRESENTATION WITH
NEXT WE ARE MOVING ON TO THE
NANCY WOLFE.
ANN ARBOR DAY PRESENTATION WITH
ANNIE, THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR
NANCY WOLFE.
JOINING US.
ANNIE, THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR
GOOD AFTERNOON.
JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH.
GOOD AFTERNOON.
HI EVERYONE.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH.
MY NAME IS NANIWA.
HI EVERYONE.
I'M A PLANNING SPECIALIST WITH
MY NAME IS NANIWA.
THE ANAMBRA DOWNTOWN
I'M A PLANNING SPECIALIST WITH
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OTHERWISE
THE ANAMBRA DOWNTOWN
CALLED THE DDA.
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OTHERWISE
I'D LIKE TO INTRODUCE TO OTHER
CALLED THE DDA.
MEMBERS OF OUR TEAM WHO ARE ON
I'D LIKE TO INTRODUCE TO OTHER
THE CALL TODAY.
MEMBERS OF OUR TEAM WHO ARE ON
ONE IS AMBER MILLER WHO IS OUR
THE CALL TODAY.
CAPITAL PROJECTS AND PLANNING
ONE IS AMBER MILLER WHO IS OUR
MANAGER AND LINDSAY FRICO WHO
CAPITAL PROJECTS AND PLANNING
IS OUR CONSULTANT AND THE
MANAGER AND LINDSAY FRICO WHO
STREET DESIGNER FOR THIS
IS OUR CONSULTANT AND THE
PROJECT THAT WE'LL INTRODUCE TO
STREET DESIGNER FOR THIS
YOU SHORTLY.
PROJECT THAT WE'LL INTRODUCE TO
SO I'M GOING TO SHARE MY SCREEN
YOU SHORTLY.
VERY BRIEFLY AND I WANT TO NOTE
SO I'M GOING TO SHARE MY SCREEN
THAT THIS POWERPOINT HAS BEEN
VERY BRIEFLY AND I WANT TO NOTE
MADE AVAILABLE TO KENNEDY AND
THAT THIS POWERPOINT HAS BEEN
SHE CAN SEND IT OUT AFTERWARDS
MADE AVAILABLE TO KENNEDY AND
.
SHE CAN SEND IT OUT AFTERWARDS
SO IF YOU'D LIKE A COPY OF IT,
.
PLEASE DON'T FORGET TO ASK.
SO IF YOU'D LIKE A COPY OF IT,
AND THIS MEETING ALSO
PLEASE DON'T FORGET TO ASK.
ACCOMPANIES OUR MEMORANDUM THAT
AND THIS MEETING ALSO
WE SENT TO YOU PRIOR TO THE
ACCOMPANIES OUR MEMORANDUM THAT
MEETING.
WE SENT TO YOU PRIOR TO THE
SO IF YOU HAVE THAT AVAILABLE
MEETING.
ON YOUR COMPUTER, THIS
SO IF YOU HAVE THAT AVAILABLE
CORRESPONDS TO THE MEMORANDUM
ON YOUR COMPUTER, THIS
ON THE FOURTH AVENUE PROJECT
CORRESPONDS TO THE MEMORANDUM
ALL RIGHT.
ON THE FOURTH AVENUE PROJECT
>> SO WE'RE HERE TODAY TO TALK
ALL RIGHT.
ABOUT THE FOURTH AVENUE
>> SO WE'RE HERE TODAY TO TALK
RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT.
ABOUT THE FOURTH AVENUE
THIS IS SLIDE TO FIRST I'D LIKE
RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT.
TO INTRODUCE THE PROJECT
THIS IS SLIDE TO FIRST I'D LIKE
BOUNDARY SO THE PROJECT AREA
TO INTRODUCE THE PROJECT
INCLUDES FOURTH AVENUE BETWEEN
BOUNDARY SO THE PROJECT AREA
WILLIAM STREET AND LIBERTY
INCLUDES FOURTH AVENUE BETWEEN
STREET.
WILLIAM STREET AND LIBERTY
THE PROJECT DOES NOT INCLUDE
STREET.
THE WILLIAM STREET INTERSECTION
THE PROJECT DOES NOT INCLUDE
BUT IT DOES INCLUDE THE LIBERTY
THE WILLIAM STREET INTERSECTION
STREET INTERSECTION AND SHOWN
BUT IT DOES INCLUDE THE LIBERTY
ON THIS SLIDE IS AN AERIAL
STREET INTERSECTION AND SHOWN
IMAGE OF THE PROJECT AREA ALONG
ON THIS SLIDE IS AN AERIAL
FOURTH AVENUE SHOWING THE
IMAGE OF THE PROJECT AREA ALONG
PROJECT AREA AND THE CENTER AND
FOURTH AVENUE SHOWING THE
THE SURROUNDING AREAS GRAYED
PROJECT AREA AND THE CENTER AND
OUT.
THE SURROUNDING AREAS GRAYED
>> AND AS A QUICK REMINDER
OUT.
OF WHAT WE DO WITH THE DDA WE
>> AND AS A QUICK REMINDER
ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR CAPITAL
OF WHAT WE DO WITH THE DDA WE
INFRASTRUCTURE IN THE DOWNTOWN
ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR CAPITAL
AREA WHICH MEANS THAT OUR
INFRASTRUCTURE IN THE DOWNTOWN
PROJECT BOUNDARIES AND WHERE
AREA WHICH MEANS THAT OUR
PRIVATE PROPERTY BEGINS.
PROJECT BOUNDARIES AND WHERE
SO WE'RE RESPONSIBLE FOR THIS
PRIVATE PROPERTY BEGINS.
PROJECT BETWEEN THE EDGES
SO WE'RE RESPONSIBLE FOR THIS
OF THE SIDEWALK ALL THE WAY TO
PROJECT BETWEEN THE EDGES
THE CENTER OF THE ROAD BUT
OF THE SIDEWALK ALL THE WAY TO
NOTHING BEYOND THAT BOUNDARY.
THE CENTER OF THE ROAD BUT
>> SO WE'RE NOT TOUCHING ANY
NOTHING BEYOND THAT BOUNDARY.
PRIVATE PARCELS WITH THIS
>> SO WE'RE NOT TOUCHING ANY
PROJECT.
PRIVATE PARCELS WITH THIS
>> SLIDE THREE I WANT TO
PROJECT.
BRIEFLY MENTIONED THE EXISTING
>> SLIDE THREE I WANT TO
CONDITIONS ALONG THIS CORRIDOR
BRIEFLY MENTIONED THE EXISTING
SO THE PROJECT AREA OF FOURTH
CONDITIONS ALONG THIS CORRIDOR
AVENUE ABUTS THE BLAKE TRANSIT
SO THE PROJECT AREA OF FOURTH
CENTER ALSO CALLED THE BTC, THE
AVENUE ABUTS THE BLAKE TRANSIT
FEDERAL BUILDING WHICH SOME
CENTER ALSO CALLED THE BTC, THE
PEOPLE CALL THE POST OFFICE,
FEDERAL BUILDING WHICH SOME
THE DOWNTOWN POST OFFICE, THE
PEOPLE CALL THE POST OFFICE,
FOURTH AND WILLIAM PARKING
THE DOWNTOWN POST OFFICE, THE
STRUCTURE WHICH IS OWNED AND
FOURTH AND WILLIAM PARKING
OPERATED BY THE DDA AND TWO
STRUCTURE WHICH IS OWNED AND
RESTAURANTS NAMELY RUTH'S CHRIS
OPERATED BY THE DDA AND TWO
STEAKHOUSE AND THE FORMER
RESTAURANTS NAMELY RUTH'S CHRIS
AVALON KITCHEN SPACE.
STEAKHOUSE AND THE FORMER
>> THE AREA TODAY HAS VERY
AVALON KITCHEN SPACE.
NARROW SIDEWALK, SMALLER BOTH
>> THE AREA TODAY HAS VERY
SHELTERS AND UNDEFINED TRAVEL
NARROW SIDEWALK, SMALLER BOTH
LANES MEANING WALKERS AND
SHELTERS AND UNDEFINED TRAVEL
DRIVERS KIND OF CAN FLOAT ALONG
LANES MEANING WALKERS AND
THE LANE THAT THEY'RE IN AND IT
DRIVERS KIND OF CAN FLOAT ALONG
ALSO HAS VERY HIGH PEDESTRIAN
THE LANE THAT THEY'RE IN AND IT
TRAFFIC DUE TO THE TRANSIT
ALSO HAS VERY HIGH PEDESTRIAN
CENTER.
TRAFFIC DUE TO THE TRANSIT
THE IMAGE SHOWN HERE IS A
CENTER.
PICTURE OF FOURTH AVENUE FACING
THE IMAGE SHOWN HERE IS A
SOUTH SHOWING THE BUS SHELTERS,
PICTURE OF FOURTH AVENUE FACING
THE PARKING STRUCTURE AND A
SOUTH SHOWING THE BUS SHELTERS,
STEAKHOUSE ON THE SLIDE FOUR.
THE PARKING STRUCTURE AND A
I WANT TO DISCUSS THE PROJECT
STEAKHOUSE ON THE SLIDE FOUR.
GOALS.
I WANT TO DISCUSS THE PROJECT
SO WHAT THIS PROJECT THE D-DAY
GOALS.
AIMS TO IMPROVE THE SAFETY AND
SO WHAT THIS PROJECT THE D-DAY
COMFORT FOR ALL USERS IN THE
AIMS TO IMPROVE THE SAFETY AND
CORRIDOR, CREATE A STREET THAT
COMFORT FOR ALL USERS IN THE
FUNCTIONS AS AN EXTENSION
CORRIDOR, CREATE A STREET THAT
OF THE TRANSIT CENTER.
FUNCTIONS AS AN EXTENSION
SOME OF YOU MAY KNOW THE BTC IS
OF THE TRANSIT CENTER.
LOOKING TO EXPAND IN ITS FUTURE
SOME OF YOU MAY KNOW THE BTC IS
AND THE CITY IS VERY SUPPORTIVE
LOOKING TO EXPAND IN ITS FUTURE
OF EXPANDING TRANSIT SERVICE
AND THE CITY IS VERY SUPPORTIVE
THROUGHOUT THE AREA.
OF EXPANDING TRANSIT SERVICE
>> SO WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
THROUGHOUT THE AREA.
THE FUTURE OF THE STREET CAN
>> SO WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
SUPPORT THAT EXPANSION.
THE FUTURE OF THE STREET CAN
THIRD, WE WOULD LIKE TO SUPPORT
SUPPORT THAT EXPANSION.
THE FUTURE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
THIRD, WE WOULD LIKE TO SUPPORT
DEVELOPMENT THAT WILL BE BUILT
THE FUTURE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
AT THREE FIFTY S FIFTH AVENUE.
DEVELOPMENT THAT WILL BE BUILT
THIS IS THE DEVELOPMENT THAT'S
AT THREE FIFTY S FIFTH AVENUE.
LOCATED ON WHAT WE CALL THE
THIS IS THE DEVELOPMENT THAT'S
FORMER YMCA LOT.
LOCATED ON WHAT WE CALL THE
IT'S A PARCEL.
FORMER YMCA LOT.
IT STANDS BETWEEN 4TH AND 5TH
IT'S A PARCEL.
AVENUE AND FINALLY FOURTH WE
IT STANDS BETWEEN 4TH AND 5TH
WOULD LIKE TO VISUALLY LINK
AVENUE AND FINALLY FOURTH WE
THIS BLOCK WITH THE DOWNTOWN
WOULD LIKE TO VISUALLY LINK
FEEL THAT CURRENTLY EXISTS ON
THIS BLOCK WITH THE DOWNTOWN
LIBERTY STREET.
FEEL THAT CURRENTLY EXISTS ON
>> FOURTH AVENUE IS NOTABLY
LIBERTY STREET.
MORE AUSTERE THAN LIBERTY
>> FOURTH AVENUE IS NOTABLY
STREET IS.
MORE AUSTERE THAN LIBERTY
WE'D LIKE TO BRING A LITTLE BIT
STREET IS.
OF THAT LIFE AND VITALITY BACK
WE'D LIKE TO BRING A LITTLE BIT
TO THIS CORRIDOR AND HERE WE
OF THAT LIFE AND VITALITY BACK
HAVE A PICTURE OF FOURTH AVENUE
TO THIS CORRIDOR AND HERE WE
FACING NORTH SHOWING THE BUS
HAVE A PICTURE OF FOURTH AVENUE
SHELTERS AND THE PARKING
FACING NORTH SHOWING THE BUS
STRUCTURE ONTO SLIDE FIVE.
SHELTERS AND THE PARKING
I'M ACTUALLY GOING TO PASS IT
STRUCTURE ONTO SLIDE FIVE.
OVER TO LINDSAY VERCOE TO SPEAK
I'M ACTUALLY GOING TO PASS IT
NEXT AS A PROJECT DESIGNER ON
OVER TO LINDSAY VERCOE TO SPEAK
WHAT THE PLAN IS FOR THE
NEXT AS A PROJECT DESIGNER ON
STREETSCAPE DESIGN.
WHAT THE PLAN IS FOR THE
HI, GOOD AFTERNOON.
STREETSCAPE DESIGN.
MY NAME IS LINDSAY FRICO.
HI, GOOD AFTERNOON.
>> I'M A LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT AT
MY NAME IS LINDSAY FRICO.
SMITH GROUP AND I'M BASED IN
>> I'M A LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT AT
ANN ARBOR.
SMITH GROUP AND I'M BASED IN
SO THIS SLIDE SHOWS THE
ANN ARBOR.
PROPOSED STREETSCAPE PLAN.
SO THIS SLIDE SHOWS THE
THE PLAN INCLUDES WIDER
PROPOSED STREETSCAPE PLAN.
SIDEWALKS, LARGE BUS SHELTERS,
THE PLAN INCLUDES WIDER
DEFINED BUS LANES, NEW
SIDEWALKS, LARGE BUS SHELTERS,
LIGHTING, STREET TREES AND
DEFINED BUS LANES, NEW
SAFER CROSSINGS.
LIGHTING, STREET TREES AND
THE BUS THAT CURRENTLY EXIST
SAFER CROSSINGS.
ADJACENT TO THE WILLOTT AT
THE BUS THAT CURRENTLY EXIST
WILLIAM AND FORTH WILL BE
ADJACENT TO THE WILLOTT AT
RELOCATED TO THE OPPOSITE SIDE
WILLIAM AND FORTH WILL BE
OF THE STREET TO ACCOMMODATE
RELOCATED TO THE OPPOSITE SIDE
THE NEW THREE FIFTY S FIFTH
OF THE STREET TO ACCOMMODATE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROJECT.
THE NEW THREE FIFTY S FIFTH
>> THE PROPOSED DRIVEWAY BEHIND
AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROJECT.
DEVELOPMENT WHICH WHICH IS
>> THE PROPOSED DRIVEWAY BEHIND
SHOWN ON THE PLAN HERE WILL BE
DEVELOPMENT WHICH WHICH IS
USED FOR BUILDING SERVICE AND
SHOWN ON THE PLAN HERE WILL BE
ALSO PROVIDES ADDITIONAL BUSSES
USED FOR BUILDING SERVICE AND
TO THE TRANSIT CENTER TO SAFELY
ALSO PROVIDES ADDITIONAL BUSSES
ACCESS AS BUS BAY.
TO THE TRANSIT CENTER TO SAFELY
>> A BLOCK CROSSING IS PROPOSED
ACCESS AS BUS BAY.
ADJACENT TO THE TRANSIT CENTER.
>> A BLOCK CROSSING IS PROPOSED
I'M GOING TO SLIDE SIX PLEASE.
ADJACENT TO THE TRANSIT CENTER.
SO ON SLIDE SIX WITH THIS SHOWS
I'M GOING TO SLIDE SIX PLEASE.
A PROPOSED RENDERING OF FOURTH
SO ON SLIDE SIX WITH THIS SHOWS
AVENUE LOOKING SOUTH FROM
A PROPOSED RENDERING OF FOURTH
LIBERTY STREET THERE IS A LARGE
AVENUE LOOKING SOUTH FROM
BUS SHELTER ALONG THE FEDERAL
LIBERTY STREET THERE IS A LARGE
BUILDING WHERE MANY ROUTES WILL
BUS SHELTER ALONG THE FEDERAL
CONTINUE TO LOAD.
BUILDING WHERE MANY ROUTES WILL
THERE ARE ALSO BE ROOM FOR
CONTINUE TO LOAD.
ADDITIONAL DINING ADJACENT TO
THERE ARE ALSO BE ROOM FOR
THE RESTAURANTS AND I APOLOGIZE
ADDITIONAL DINING ADJACENT TO
IN ADVANCE.
THE RESTAURANTS AND I APOLOGIZE
THIS RENDERING IS NOT
IN ADVANCE.
COMPLETELY DESIGNED TO DETAIL
THIS RENDERING IS NOT
THERE WILL BE ADA SIDEWALK
COMPLETELY DESIGNED TO DETAIL
RAMPS.
THERE WILL BE ADA SIDEWALK
I APOLOGIZE
THAT THOSE ARE NOT
PROVIDED HERE IN THE RENDERING
ONTO SLIDE SEVEN THAT SHOWS
ANOTHER RENDERING ILLUSTRATING
THE MID BLOCK CROSSING
FEATURING A BUMP OUT TO
MINIMIZE THE CROSSING WIDTH.
PUBLIC ART AND LANDSCAPE
PLANTERS ARE DEPICTED HERE AS
WELL.
THE FINAL DESIGN FOR THE PUBLIC
EYE IS TO BE DETERMINED BUT IT
LIKELY MAY INCLUDE SOME
SCREENING UNDER THE PARKING
STRUCTURE.
SLIDE EIGHT SHOWS THE PROPOSED
PLAN OF YOU AGAIN BUT THIS
SHOWS TO FOCUS AREAS THAT WE'D
LIKE TO DISCUSS WITH YOU ALL
TODAY.
AREA ONE IS TO INCLUDE CEMENT
BLOCK CROSSING ADJACENT TO THE
PUBLIC TRANSIT CENTER AND THEN
AREA TO INCLUDE TWO DRIVEWAYS
ONE TO THE PARKING STRUCTURE
AND ONE TO THE FEDERAL BUILDING
PARKING LOT.
AND SO TODAY WE'RE SEEKING
INPUT SPECIFICALLY ON A
PROPOSED STRATEGY FOR TACTILE
PAVERS SLOBODA THE NEXT SLIDE.
>> SO SLIDE NINE IS AN
ENLARGEMENT OF THE PROPOSED
PLAN AT THE MID BLOCK CROSSING
WE ARE PROVIDING DOMED WARNING
PLATES AT THE EXISTING DRIVEWAY
TO THE TRANSIT CENTER AND THE
NEW PROPOSED THREE FIFTY S
DRIVEWAY THAT WILL BE SHARED
WITH THE BLAK SO THESE
DRIVEWAYS WILL HAVE HEAVY BUS
TRAFFIC.
>> WE ARE ALSO PROPOSING
DIRECTIONAL TILES ALONG THE
CENTER OF BOTH OF THESE
DRIVEWAYS AND THEN THERE IS A
SLIGHT JOG IN THE WALKING ZONE
,THE SIDEWALK ON BOTH SIDES
OF THE STREETS AND SO WE ARE
PROPOSING TO DIRECT TILES ALONG
THE CENTER OF THE WALKING PATH
TO GUIDE GOLF GUIDE USERS
THROUGH THE JOG.
SO THERE IS NO SPECIFIC
FEEDBACK IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT
OF WAY ACCESSIBILITY STANDARDS
ON THE LONGITUDINAL GUIDE
STRIPS.
AND SO WE'RE HERE TO SEEK INPUT
ON THIS FOCUS AREA AND THEN ON
THE SECOND BUT BEFORE WE MOVE
ON TO THE SECOND, I THINK I'D
LIKE TO PAUSE HERE FOR FEEDBACK
IF THAT'S OK.
THIS TIME.
>> DOES ANY COMMISSIONER HAVE
ANY FEEDBACK?
>> OK, ALL RIGHT HERE HEARING
NONE.
THANK YOU.
OK, GREAT THANK YOU.
I KNOW YOU CAN MOVE TO SLIDE
TEN SO SLIDE TEN SHOWS THE
MANAGEMENT OF THE PARKING
STRUCTURE AND THE FEDERAL
BUILDING DRIVEWAYS TACTILE
WARNING PLATES I PROPOSED AT A
PARKING STRUCTURE DRIVEWAY
WHICH IS CONTROLLED WITH A GATE
ARM.
SO OUR INTERPRETATION OF THE
PRO AG STANDARDS IS THAT THE
TACTILE WARNING PLATES ARE
RECOMMENDED AND WE ARE NOT
PROPOSING TACTILE WARNING
PLATES AT THE FEDERAL BUILDING
PARKING SINCE THIS IS NOT A
CONTROLLED STOP AND THAT WE USE
FREQUENTLY AND SO WE WOULD LIKE
TO RECEIVE FEEDBACK ON THIS
PORTION OF THE DESIGN AS WELL
.
>> ANY COMMISSIONERS WITH
FEEDBACK AT THIS TIME ON THE
DESIGN
?
ALL RIGHT.
YOU'RE IGNORANT.
THANK YOU.
>> OK, GREAT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
LINDSAY.
I'M SORRY.
GO AHEAD.
ABSOLUTELY.
I JUST HAD ONE QUESTION BECAUSE
I HAD SEEN IN ONE OF THE
RENDERINGS THAT THERE WILL BE A
CROSSWALK FOR THAT.
WILL THERE BE WILL THERE BE
LIKE A BUTTON TO PUSH WITH LIKE
HAZARD LIGHTS AND LIKE AN
AUDIBLE YOU KNOW, AUDIBLE SOUND
SO PEOPLE ARE ABLE TO CROSS
LIKE BETWEEN I'M SORRY LIKE
WHERE THE CROSSWALK IS FROM
FROM THREE ACROSS THAT MID
BLOCK CROSSWALK.
I KNOW YOU SAID THE THE DOMED
WARNING PLATES BUT I JUST WANT
TO MAKE SURE THAT THERE WAS
ALSO LIKE AN AUDIBLE CROSSWALK
SIGN.
I DON'T BELIEVE THERE WILL BE
AN AUDIBLE CROSSWALK SIGN OR
UNDERSTANDING FROM THE TRAFFIC
IMPACT STUDY.
WAS THAT WHAT WAS REQUIRED HIGH
VISIBILITY SIGNAGE FOR DRIVERS
?
>> YEAH, THE ONLY REASON I WAS
WONDERING ABOUT THAT IS JUST
BECAUSE I FEEL LIKE PEOPLE
DRIVE THROUGH THERE PRETTY
QUICKLY AND I KNOW WE'VE BEEN
DRIVING ON HERE ON NEAR CAMPUS
LIKE PEOPLE DON'T ALWAYS REALLY
FOLLOW THE SIGNAGE THAT WE HAVE
WITH THE FLASHING LIGHTS ON A
MOVING AREA.
SO I JUST ESPECIALLY IF WE'RE
PUTTING A WALKWAY IN THERE, I
JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
PEOPLE FEEL SAFE CROSSING THEIR
YEAH.
>> >> I HAVE A QUESTION.
>> OH, OK.
WELL, I'M GOING TO COMMISSIONER
STITCHED HIS HAND UP FIRST AND
THEN YOU CAN GO YES GO AHEAD.
>> NO GO AHEAD.
FIRST UP, I WAS ACTUALLY JUST
GOING TO ECHO RACHEL'S POINT.
I DO THINK AN AUDIBLE
PEDESTRIAN SIGNAL MAKES SENSE.
THAT MAKES SENSE THERE
ESPECIALLY WITH BUSSES AND
EVERYTHING ELSE THAT IS GOING
AROUND THAT AREA.
IT'S GOING TO BE LOUD ENOUGH
ALREADY.
SO SOMETHING ELSE THAT'S THERE
TO HELP SIGNIFY CROSSING I
THINK WOULD BE HELPFUL.
AND THEN ON THE OTHER PICTURE
WITH THE TACTILE PLATES BEFORE
THE PARKING STRUCTURE.
AM I RIGHT IN THINKING THAT
THOSE ARE RECESSED PRETTY FAR
BACK OR HOW FAR BACK ARE THOSE
RESULTS FROM THE ACTUAL INJURY
EXIT OF THE PARKING STRUCTURE
AS SHOWN THEY'RE ADJACENT TO
THE DRIVEWAY AND I GUESS I SEE
YOU'RE SAYING OK, I THANK YOU,
LARRY.
>> YEAH, I AGREE WITH I AGREE
WITH HAS TO COMMISSIONER'S
STATEMENTS ABOUT THE APF.
BUT MY QUESTION IS ARE YOU
PRESENTING IN THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION THIS
EVENING?
>> NO.
>> OH OK.
OK, WELL BECAUSE I WAS GOING TO
SAY IF I HAD ANY QUESTIONS NOPE
.
WE TAKE CARE OF THEM NOW THAT
THANK YOU AND BELIEVE MATTHEW
SOLOMON YOUR HAND WAS RAISED
NEXT.
>> YEAH.
SO THANK YOU FOR THE
PRESENTATION.
I LIKEWISE ECHO MY FELLOW
COMMISSIONERS AND REQUESTING I
THINK IT IS RISEN TO THE LEVEL
OF REQUESTING GREATER
ACCOMMODATIONS IN THAT
CROSSWALK AND I ALSO WANTED TO
JUST FLAG SOMETHING THAT WAS
SAID IN THE Q&A WHICH IS THE
IDEA OF SOMETHING BEING
REQUIRED THAT IS CERTAINLY A
MINIMUM STANDARD BUT PART
OF WHAT OUR GOAL ON THIS
COMMISSION IS IS TO TRY AND
RISE ABOVE THAT MINIMUM
STANDARD.
SO I WOULD JUST ENCOURAGE YOU
AND YOUR COLLEAGUES TO THINK
NOT ONLY ABOUT WHAT IS REQUIRED
AND WHAT IS LEGALLY ENFORCEABLE
BUT WHAT IS FULL ACCOMMODATIONS
FOR THE COMMUNITY AND TO REALLY
PUT THAT AT THE FOREFRONT
OF YOUR THINKING, DO YOU THINK
COMMISSIONER HAWKINS?
>> UH, YES, THANK YOU.
I WAS JUST GOING TO ADD THAT I
THINK ESPECIALLY HAVING DRIVEN
ON THAT ROAD A LOT AND KIND
OF SEEING OTHER AREAS WHERE ON
THE U OF M CAMPUS WHERE YOU'RE
INTERACTING WITH THE BUS
SYSTEM, THERE ARE TIMES WHERE
CARS WILL TRY TO DRIVE AROUND
THE BUSSES IF THEY'RE STOPPED
TO PICK PEOPLE UP.
SO I THINK HAVING THE
ADDITIONAL FLASHING LIGHTS
MIGHT BE A GOOD VISUAL WARNING
JUST TO REDUCE THE LIKELIHOOD
OF , YOU KNOW, PEDESTRIANS
ACCIDENTS WITH MOTOR VEHICLES
NOT BECAUSE THAT INDUSTRY HAS
DONE ANYTHING WRONG BUT JUST
BECAUSE YOU KNOW, SOMETIMES
DRIVERS ARE DISTRACTED AND I
AGREE THAT THERE'S A LOT
OF NOISE AND A LOT OF MOVEMENT
IN THAT AREA.
SO ANYTHING WE CAN DO TO KEEP
PEOPLE AS SAFE AS POSSIBLE
WOULD BE EXCELLENT.
AND I ECHO WHAT COMMISSIONER
SOLOMON SAID AS WELL.
I AGREE THAT WE'RE REALLY
TRYING TO MAKE THINGS AS AS
ACCESSIBLE AND USEFUL TO THE
GENERAL PUBLIC AS POSSIBLE.
>> MENTIONER GOSSAGE YEAH, I
HAVE ONE MORE POINT.
THANK YOU.
AND I LOST IT BEFORE WITH A
PARKING STRUCTURE.
I IF WE'RE LOOKING AT INCREASE
IN PEDESTRIAN USING THAT MAYBE
IT WOULD BE HELPFUL TO HAVE
ADDITIONAL SIGNAGE THAT LETS
FOLKS KNOW IF THERE'S A CAR
THAT'S COMING OUT OF THE GARAGE
IN THAT AREA.
I'VE STARTED TO SEE SIGNAGE
LIKE THAT ESPECIALLY NON STATIC
SIGNAGE THAT THAT INFORMS
PEDESTRIANS THAT THERE'S A CAR
COMING UP OR COULD BE PULLING
OUT RIGHT THERE.
AND I FIND AS A USER I FIND
THOSE PARTICULARLY HELPFUL,
ESPECIALLY WHEN I DON'T FEEL
LIKE ANYBODY'S LOOKING FOR
ANYBODY.
>> IT'S LOW TO THE GROUND AS I
AM.
THIS IS COMMISSIONER HAWKINS.
I AGREE WITH COMMISSIONER
GOSSAGE AS WELL AND I FEEL LIKE
THERE ARE A NUMBER OF GARAGES
AND MORE PEDESTRIAN HEAVY AREAS
THAT DO HAVE THAT.
I'M THINKING SPECIFICALLY IF
THEY'RE NEAR AUDITORIUM BUT I
ESPECIALLY WHEN WE'RE LOOKING
AT LIKE DIFFERENT TIMES A DAY
AND VISIBILITY AND WEATHER
COMBINED WITH ALL THESE OTHER
FACTORS.
I THINK THAT WOULD ALSO BE
HELPFUL ON BOTH ENDS OF THE THE
THE GARAGE THE ONE COMING OUT
ON FOURTH AND THE ONE COMING
OUT OF WILLIAM.
ALL RIGHT.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS?
OK, WELL THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> OK, ACTUALLY SO NO I MEAN I
THINK PART OF WHAT I WOULD BE
CURIOUS TO KNOW IS LIKE WILL WE
BE LOOPED IN ON THE EVENTUAL
ALTERATIONS IF ANY TO THE PLAN
YOU HAVE PRESENTED?
THIS HAS BEEN A REALLY NICE
PRESENTATION BUT I'M ALWAYS
CURIOUS HOW THE INPUT OF THE
COMMISSION ACTUALLY OCCURS IN
CONCRETE PLANS.
SO IS THERE A WAY OF FOLLOWING
UP?
>> I'M GOING TO PASS THAT OVER
TO AMBER AND FINALLY THIS IS
MILLER SPEAKING.
WE'D BE HAPPY TO COME BACK AND
THEN REPORT BACK.
I ALSO WANTED TO KNOW ABOUT
TOMORROW WE'RE HOSTING AN
ONSITE MEETING FOR THIS PROJECT
IF ANYONE IS INTERESTED
.
WE ARE MEETING AT THE NORTHWEST
CORNER OF 4TH AND WILLIAM AT
2:00 PM.
IS THAT RIGHT?
YES, THAT'S CORRECT.
AND WE WERE WALKING THROUGH THE
SITE SO WE'LL HAVE A SAMPLE
OF THAT DIRECTIONAL TILE THAT
LINDSEY SPOKE TO TODAY AND I
WILL BE ABLE TO MAKE THAT
TOMORROW.
>> OH YEAH.
I WAS GOING TO SAY IT'S KIND
OF HARD FOR ME TO KIND
OF CONCEPTUALIZE SOME OF THE
DETAILS OF THE PLAN.
BUT AS SOMEONE WHO'S LEGALLY
BLIND, I FEEL LIKE THERE'S A
FEW DETAILS THAT WOULD BE
IMPORTANT.
I CAN'T MAKE IT TOMORROW EITHER
.
>> BUT IF THERE'S ANOTHER
OPPORTUNITY TO DO A
WALKTHROUGH, I'D BE HAPPY TO.
>> OK, GREAT.
WE CAN FOLLOW THROUGH WE CAN
FOLLOW UP WITH KEN INVOLVED AND
TRY TO GET SOME MORE
AVAILABILITY.
>> RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
AND SAY AMBER TAMANI, THANK YOU
SO MUCH.
LINDSEY, THANK FOR THE
PRESENTATION AND THANK YOU FOR
SHARING THE PROJECT.
YES.
PLEASE FEEL FREE TO FOLLOW UP
WITH US AND IF THERE IS A
FUTURE DATE THAT WE COULD BE
OF SERVICE, DO NOT HESITATE TO
LET US KNOW.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU ALL.
ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON TO THE NEXT
PRESENTATION FOR THE DAY WE
HAVE THE WASHTENAW LIBRARY FOR
THE BLIND PRINT DISABLED REPORT
WITH KATIE CABBAGE KATIE GOOD
AFTERNOON.
HI EVERYBODY.
THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME.
I JUST HAVE A COUPLE OF THINGS
TO SHARE TODAY FROM THE
LIBRARY.
WE HAVE SOME UPCOMING EVENTS.
WE HAVE MUSIC ACROSS BORDERS
UGANDAN FOLK RHYTHMS WITH
SAMUEL NALAN JERROD THAT SUNDAY
NOVEMBER 30TH FROM THREE TO
FOUR P.M. THE DOWNTOWN LIBRARY
EXPERIENCE THE VIBRANT SOUNDS
OF EAST AFRICA IN THIS
INTERACTIVE PERFORMANCE AND
WORKSHOP LED BY UGANDAN FOLK
MUSICIAN AND CULTURAL EDUCATOR
SAMUEL NOWLIN JIRA FAMILIES
WILL EXPLORE TRADITIONAL
INSTRUMENTS, DRUMMING RHYTHMS
AND STORIES FROM UGANDA THEN
ENJOY A LIVE CONCERT FEATURING
THE JOYFUL RHYTHMIC MUSIC
OF SAMUEL'S FAMILY.
ALL AGES ARE WELCOME AT THIS
PROGRAM AND THEN CONTINUING OUR
MUSIC THEME WE HAVE SAQQARA
INSTRUMENTAL GROUP.
THIS IS ON MONDAY, DECEMBER
EIGHT FROM SIX TO SEVEN P.M. AT
THE DOWNTOWN LIBRARY.
JOIN US FOR A JAPANESE FESTIVAL
WITH SAKURA SAKURA, A JAPANESE
INSTRUMENTAL GROUP.
THE PERFORMING ARTISTS HAILING
FROM HOMETOWNS IN BOTH JAPAN
AND THE MIDWEST USA COME
TOGETHER TO SHARE THE
SOUNDSCAPES OF TRADITIONAL
MUSIC AS EXPRESSED THROUGH THE
COMPOSITIONS OF THEIR MUTUAL
MENTOR YAMADA MIZUE FROM CANADA
OUR JAPAN SOME PIECES FROM THE
KOTO ONE WORLD COLLECTION AS
WELL AS TRADITIONAL FOLK MUSIC
PIECES.
WE WILL BEGIN OUR JOURNEY BY
FILLING THE ROOM WITH THE
SIGNATURE SOUNDS OF JAPAN'S
NATIONAL INSTRUMENT THE KOTO
THEN ENJOY THE MELODIES
OF OTHER FESTIVAL MUSIC AND THE
BEAT OF THE EXPLOSIVE SOUNDS
OF THE DRUMS OF JAPAN CALLED
TEIKO AS WE CELEBRATE THE ART
OF TRADITIONAL JAPANESE MUSIC
TOGETHER THEN THIS LAST MONTH
THAT I'M GOING TO SHARE IT'S
PART OF A SERIES THAT WE'VE
BEEN DOING AT THE LIBRARY
CALLED LET'S BE FRIENDS AND
THIS PARTICULAR EVENT HAS THE
THEME OF LOOKING FOR A BOOK
CLUB.
THIS IS GOING TO BE ON
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10TH FROM
SIX TO SEVEN P.M. AT THE TREVER
BRANCH.
EVERYBODY KNOWS HOW HARD IT CAN
BE TO MAKE FRIENDS AS ADULTS.
SO ADL IS MAKING SPACE FOR THAT
TO HAPPEN.
SHOW UP TO THIS THEMED MEET UP
NO LECTURE, NO CRAFT, JUST A
GATHERING OF PEOPLE WHO WANT TO
MEET SOMEONE NEW AND THEN AS
ALWAYS I WILL REMIND YOU THAT
LIBRARY MATERIALS ARE AVAILABLE
THROUGH THE NATIONAL LIBRARY
FOR THE BLIND AND PRINT
DISABLED PATRONS CAN ORDER
BOOKS THROUGH US BY CALLING
SEVEN THREE FOUR THREE TO SEVEN
FOUR TWO TWO FOUR AH YOU CAN
EMAIL US AT W L B P D A DIALOG
AND WE ENCOURAGE OUR PATRONS TO
SIGN UP FOR THE BRAILLE AND
AUDIO READING DOWNLOAD SERVICE
CALLED BAADE.
YOU CAN DOWNLOAD YOUR OWN BOOKS
.
THERE IS NO WAITING.
YOU JUST VISIT AND I'LL BE A R
D THAT ALOSI G OVIE OR GIVE US
A CALL AND WE CAN ASSIST YOU
WITH YOUR APPLICATION FOR THAT
AND THEN I'LL HIGHLIGHT A
COUPLE OF NEW BOOKS THAT YOU
CAN FIND ON THAT BAAD WEBSITE
OR THE APP THE NOT SO BIG LIFE
MAKING ROOM FOR WHAT REALLY
MATTERS BY SARAH SUZANNE AKA
MANY PEOPLE FEEL OVERWHELMED BY
BUSY SCHEDULES AND OBLIGATIONS
WONDERING HOW LIFE BECAME SO
OUT OF CONTROL BY MAKING SMALL
INTENTIONAL SHIFTS IN
PERSPECTIVE AND DAILY HABITS.
IT'S POSSIBLE TO SLOW DOWN,
FIND CLARITY AND RECONNECT WITH
WHAT TRULY MATTERS AND MOMENTS
OF GRACE AND BEAUTY 40 STORIES
OF KINDNESS, COURAGE AND
GENEROSITY AND A TROUBLED WORLD
BY ROLAND MARULLO.
>> EVERY DAY AROUND THE GLOBE
THERE ARE MILLIONS OF ACTS
OF KINDNESS, COURAGE,
GENEROSITY AND GRACE BUT WE
RARELY GET TO HEAR MUCH ABOUT
THEM.
IT'S EASIER TO WRITE ABOUT THE
EVIL IN THE WORLD THAN ABOUT
THE GOOD AT THE START OF A
RECENT GRAY COLD NEW ENGLAND
WINTER, THE AUTHOR DECIDED TO
MAKE A LIST OF SOME OF THE
REMARKABLE ACTS HE HAS
WITNESSED SERVING AS A
COUNTERWEIGHT TO THE ABUNDANCE
OF TROUBLE IN THE NEWS AND IS
OFFERED AS EVIDENCE OF THE
GOODWILL STILL PRESENT ON EARTH
.
>> THAT IS EVERYTHING THAT I
HAVE FOR TODAY.
DOES ANYBODY HAVE ANY COMMENTS
QUESTIONS FOR ME?
>> I HAVE A COMMENT.
>> GO AHEAD LARRY.
THAT COMMENT IS THANK THE LORD
THE GOVERNMENT IS RUNNING AGAIN
BECAUSE NOW NOW ALL THE BOOKS
ARE APPEARING ON BECAUSE THE A
ARE ONLY A COUPLE OF BOOKS AND
A COUPLE OF MAGAZINES BECAUSE
OBVIOUSLY FOLKS AREN'T GETTING
PAID OR WHATEVER SO YEAH YEAH I
KNOW THE BOOKS ARE COMING BACK.
OH WELL I WOULD GET ON BOARD
ONCE OR TWICE A YEAR.
KATIE YOU KNOW THAT AND I'D BE
VERY SARCASTIC.
>> I'M OUT THERE EVERY DAY I
KNOW HAVE TO GO AND SO I
DEFINITELY NOTICED THE SLOWDOWN
IN THE PRODUCTION OF BOOKS
DURING A SHUTDOWN.
SO WE ALSO ARE VERY EXCITED TO
SEE THAT TICK UP AGAIN AND
PEOPLE ARE BACK TO WORK MAKING
THOSE PRODUCTIONS AND GETTING
THEM UP ON THE WEBSITE IN THE
APP.
SO YES, THAT IS WONDERFUL
NEWS FOR US.
AWESOME.
THANK YOU SO MUCH TO YOU KATIE
TO ALL OF YOUR STAFF AND TO
EVERYONE AT THE WASHTENAW
LIBRARY FOR THE BLIND AND PRINT
DISABLED REALLY APPRECIATE THE
AMAZING SERVICE THAT YOU DO FOR
OUR COMMUNITY AND BEYOND.
>> THANK YOU.
YOU'RE WELCOME.
THANKS SO MUCH FOR HAVING ME.
>> ALL RIGHT.
ON NEXT WE HAVE THE DISABILITY
NETWORK WASHTENAW MONROE
LIVINGSTON REPORTS WITH ANDREA
HENRY.
>> ANDREA, GOOD AFTERNOON.
GOOD AFTERNOON.
I JUST HAVE A REAL SHORT REPORT
TODAY FOR ALL OF YOU.
WANTED TO FIRST THINK EVERYONE
FOR A GREAT EVENT THIS PAST
WEEKEND WITH THE HARVEST
GATHERING AND OUR HOLIDAY
MARKET AND IF YOU MISSED OUR
HOLIDAY MARKET, WE WILL HAVE
ONE MORE OPPORTUNITY FOR YOU TO
SUPPORT LOCAL ARTISTS WITH
DISABILITIES AT OUR WASHTENAW
BUILDING AND RESEARCH PARK
DRIVE ON SATURDAY, DECEMBER THE
6TH FROM ONE TO FOUR P.M. THAT
HOLIDAY MARKET IS SCHEDULED TO
HAVE THE SIMILAR TYPES OF WARES
THAT WERE AVAILABLE THIS LAST
WEEKEND INCLUDING POTTER AND
CERAMICS, TEXTILES AND
WEARABLES, PAPER QUILTING,
SMALL SCULPTURES, JEWELRY,
PAINTINGS, PHOTOGRAPHS AND MORE
AS WELL AS THAT MARKET WILL
FEATURE FREE GIFT WRAPPING.
SO IF THAT IS NOT YOUR THING,
STOP BY THE MARKET, GET SOME
HOLIDAY SHOPPING DONE AND GET
IT GIFT WRAPPED OR FREE OUTSIDE
OF THAT I JUST WANTED TO BRING
TO YOUR ATTENTION A COUPLE
OF LOGISTICAL UPDATES FOR US AS
WE HEAD TOWARDS THE END OF THE
YEAR NEXT WEEK ON WEDNESDAY AT
TWENTY SIX DISABILITY NETWORK
OFFICE PHYSICAL OFFICES WILL BE
CLOSED.
STAFF WILL BE WORKING REMOTELY
SO YOU CAN STILL REACH US AT
SEVEN THREE FOUR NINE SEVEN ONE
ZERO TO SEVEN SEVEN OR EMAIL AT
INFO AT DFW ELGORT AND THEN
NEXT THURSDAY NOVEMBER TWENTY
SEVENTH AND FRIDAY NOVEMBER
TWENTY EIGHT ALL OFFICES ARE
CLOSED AND STAFF WILL NOT BE
WORKING IN OBSERVANCE OF THE
THANKSGIVING HOLIDAY BUT THAT
WAS THAT THAT'S ALL I HAD FOR
THE COMMISSION TODAY UNLESS
ANYBODY HAS ANY QUESTIONS I
DON'T HAVE ANY QUESTIONS.
I JUST WANT TO THANK DISABILITY
NETWORK WASHINGTON ALMENDRAL
LIVINGSTON FOR ALL THAT THEY DO
.
I DID SEE HOW SUCCESSFUL THE
HARVEST GATHERING WAS SO
CONGRATULATIONS TO THAT AND
HOPEFULLY WE CAN CONTINUE TO
SUPPORT AND ATTEND EVENTS WHEN
WE'RE ABLE.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANK YOU
.
ALL RIGHT AND HELPFUL IT'D BE
HELPFUL IF I TOOK MYSELF OFF
OF MUTE.
ALL RIGHT.
NEXT WE HAVE THE PARTNERS AND
ACCESS COMMITTEE REPORT WITH
LARRY KEILLER.
ALL RIGHT.
HERE IT IS.
WE HAD TWO CHAIR MEN AND WE HAD
VICE CHAIR ME AND WE HAD
COMMISSIONER PACKARD AND WE
ENDED UP WE STARTED A MEETING
BUT I REPORTED ON THE LIBRARY
UPGRADE TO THE LIBRARY AND I
HAD FOLLOWED UP ON POLICE
COMMISSIONER THE CHAIRMAN AND
ALSO FOLLOWED UP ON THE LIBRARY
AND IT'S OUR IT'S OUR IT MY
UNDERSTANDING THAT THE
REQUESTED LINES AND TACTILE
STRIX THAT WERE GOING TO BE IN
FRONT OF THE STAIRS ARE
PROBABLY GOING TO BE POSTO
DIDN'T TELL THE THE NEW LIBRARY
IS BUILT.
THEY'RE SUPPOSED TO BE IN THOSE
PLANS BUT THEY'RE SUPPOSED TO
BE IN THE NEW LIBRARY PLANS.
BUT I'LL KEEP I COULD KEEP
BOTHERING THEM TO TO MAKE SURE
AS CONSTRUCTION GOES ALONG THAT
THOSE GET PUT IN.
I'M GOING TO WORK REAL HARD AND
GET THOSE PUT IN AND SO SOME
AND THEN THE WE HAD AN UPDATE
ON THE SOCIAL MEDIA TRYING TO
GET THAT TOGETHER AND IF
ANYBODY WANTS TO TALK ABOUT
THAT IN A MINUTE, WE'RE
SUPPOSED TO CONTACT A PERSON
FROM U OF M THAT WILL WELL HELP
WITH THE DESIGN AND THEN WE'RE
DOING THE THE PHOTO FOR THE
PHOTO FOR THE COMMISSION WE'RE
SUPPOSED TO DO THAT NEXT MONTH
AND I'LL MEET DOWN AT THE AT
CITY COUNCIL AND DO IT THERE
AND THEN I'M CLOSE TO WE TALKED
ABOUT NITRIDE AND HOW TO GET IN
TOUCH WITH THEM BUT I CAN DO
THAT OR ACTUALLY COMMISSIONER
BECAUSE YOU CAN DO THAT IF YOU
HIT NUMBER ONE ON THE AND THE
LIST WHEN YOU'RE ON THE LIST
OF NUMBERS WHEN YOU CALL IN WE
CAN GET THAT NITRIDE NUMBER NO
.
AND WE DID TALK ABOUT THE
THINGS WE DID TALK ABOUT THE
BYLAWS SECTION.
I WAS SICK IN SECTION ONE IN
TWO BUT I I WANTED TO POSTPONE
THE TALK ON THE BYLAWS TO SEE
IF I NEED WHAT WORDS EVERYTHING
I NEED BECAUSE I KIND OF CAME
IN REAL SHORT I'M GO I NEED TO
DO THAT SO WE CAN DECIDE EVEN
IF WE NEED THE THE CHANGE OR I
CAN PRESENT THE WORD SMITHING
FOR THAT NEXT MONTH THAT I COME
UP WITH AND OUR NEXT MEETING
OF COURSE IS THE 27TH
OF DECEMBER AND THAT WILL BE A
WEDNESDAY AT FIVE P.M. AND IS
THERE ANY ADDITIONS OR
QUESTIONS?
I DON'T HAVE ANY ADDITIONS OR
QUESTIONS THAT COMMISSIONER
SOULEYMAN SO IS THAT PART
OF OUR AGENDA FOR TODAY TO
DISCUSS THE BYLAWS?
I CONFESS I DIDN'T REVIEW THAT
CLOSELY.
>> I THINK IT WAS GOING TO BE
BUT I REQUESTED THAT WE TAKE IT
OFF BECAUSE WE GOT ELECTIONS
AND AND THAT SORT OF THING AND
I WANTED A LITTLE EXTRA TIME TO
GO THROUGH IT BECAUSE I WHEN I
WE TALKED ABOUT IT WE HAD LIKE
TWO DAYS TO GET IT DONE AND I
HAD THINGS TO DO THE NEXT DAY
I'M LIKE OH NO, I CAN'T PUT IT
ON THE AGENDA SURE ENOUGH.
>> THANK YOU FOR THE
CLARIFICATION.
SO THERE WILL BE AN ELECTION
TODAY OR THERE WAS GOING TO BE
AN ELECTION EITHER WAY.
OK, WITH THE BYLAWS AND WITHOUT
THE BYLAWS.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR
LARRY AT THIS TIME?
ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON TO THE COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT REPORT WITH
COMMISSIONER RACHEL HAWKINS.
>> RACHEL IZAK, I DO NOT HAVE
ANY UPDATES.
I SPOKE WITH MELISSA BONDIE
TODAY BY EMAIL.
THEY DON'T HAVE AN UPDATE YET
ON THEIR NEXT UPCOMING TAPING.
>> I KNOW THAT KATHLEEN COULD
SPEAK TO THIS AS WELL.
I KNOW THAT THERE HAVE BEEN
SOME EMAILS EXCHANGED BACK AND
FORTH ABOUT KIND OF THE
POSSIBLE POSSIBLE HOSTING
OPPORTUNITY LIKE AS A
SUBSTITUTE WHEN THEY'RE THEIR
PRIMARY HOST IS OUT.
SO I DIDN'T KNOW IF THERE HAD
BEEN ANY ADDITIONAL TALK ABOUT,
YOU KNOW, WHEN CAPLING WOULD BE
ABLE TO MEET WITH THEM.
SO I DON'T HAVE ANY UPDATES
THOUGH.
EXACTLY ON ANN ARBOR INCLUSIVE
FROM WHAT MELISSA SENT ME
TODAY.
SO OK, DO WE KNOW WHEN AT THAT
POST WE'LL BE BACK FROM LEAVE
BY CHANCE I MET KATHY MAY BE
ABLE TO SPEAK TO THIS BETTER
BUT MY UNDERSTANDING WAS THAT
IT WASN'T I DON'T BELIEVE IT
WAS A SPECIFIC SET OF DAYS.
I THINK THEY WERE JUST LOOKING
TO HAVE AN ADDITIONAL PERSON
WHO WOULD BE ABLE TO HOST A
I'LL DEFER TO KATHLEEN.
SHE PROBABLY HAS MORE UPDATED
INFORMATION ON THIS SO HER
HANDS UP COMMISSIONER MOTZA, I
DON'T HAVE A BIG UPDATE.
>> I HAD BEEN LOOKING FOR
EMAILS FROM MELISSA AND IT
TURNS OUT THAT SOMEONE RECENTLY
EMAILED ME BY THE NAME OF TOM
NOT MELISSA AND IT LANDED IN MY
SPAM FILTER WAS THAT TOM
HOAGLUND?
>> NO, A DIFFERENT TOM.
DIFFERENT TOM.
OK, SOMEBODY WHO SAID THEY WERE
A PRODUCER OK?
AND SO IT LANDED IN MY SPAM
FOLDER SO I THOUGHT I WOULD DO
IS NOT ONLY EMAIL HIM BACK BUT
SEE SEE YOU ZACK AND ALSO
MELISSA BONDIE THAT THAT SOUNDS
PERFECT.
>> THANKS SO MUCH, KATHLEEN.
YOU'RE WELCOME.
YEAH.
THANK YOU SO MUCH RACHEL AND
THANK YOU KATHLEEN AND THANK
YOU TO C10 AS WELL.
I DO APOLOGIZE THAT THE PROCESS
IS A BIT SLOW BUT YOU KNOW, NO
WORRIES HOPEFULLY KATHLEEN, WE
CAN GET YOU SITUATED THERE TO
TO DO SOME HOSTING FOR ANN
ARBOR INCLUSIVE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WELL THANK YOU, RACHEL.
IF THERE ISN'T ANYTHING ELSE
I'D LIKE TO MOVE ON TO
RECRUITING ACTIVITY WITH LARRY
KEYLA WELL, THAT'LL BE A QUICK
WHAT?
I HAVEN'T HEARD ANYTHING.
NOTHING'S COME UP.
I'VE TALKED TO NOBODY I'VE SEEN
NO RESUMES COMING AND NO
APPLICATIONS COME IN OR
ANYTHING LIKE THAT.
>> THE LAST I KNEW WE HAD ONE
OUR WHOLE A FEW MONTHS AGO I
HAVEN'T HEARD ANYTHING ABOUT
THAT SINCE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU, LARRY.
>> AT THIS TIME AM I CORRECT IN
SAYING WE ONLY HAVE DO WE HAVE
ANY VACANCIES AT THIS TIME?
>> KENNEDY APPARENTLY RIGHT NOW
WE HAVE TWO VACANCIES.
THERE'S ONLY BEEN ONE NEW
APPLICATION AND THAT'S THROUGH
SINCE THOSE TWO VACANCIES HAVE
BEEN ANNOUNCED.
>> SO YES, THE COMMISSION ONLY
HAS TWO.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
>> ALL RIGHT.
ON NEXT, LARRY, DON'T GO
ANYWHERE BECAUSE WE ALSO NEED
YOU TO REPORT ON THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
UPDATE.
I'D BE HERE AND SO MOST OF WHAT
WE TALKED ABOUT THERE WAS A LOT
OF CONCERNS OVER SNOW REMOVAL
AND IT WAS PRESENTING THAT
THERE WAS A PRESENTATION I
FORGET WHO DID IT BUT THERE WAS
A PRESENTATION TO THE CITY I
GUESS OF WAYS TO SNOW REMOVAL
AND HOW THEY'RE GOING TO IT'S
STILL A CHALLENGE BUT THEY'RE
GOING TO USE NEW TECHNOLOGY
THIS WINTER AND TRYING TO AND
THEY'RE THEY'RE GOING TO USE
NEW TECHNOLOGY TO FIGURE OUT
WHERE THE SNOW NEEDS TO BE
REMOVED MOST AND LEAST AND
THEY'RE GOING TO NOW TAKE INTO
ACCOUNT LIKE SIDEWALK RAMPS AND
THE USUAL PILE UP AT THE CURB
WHERE YOU KNOW THE CORNERS
OF THE CURB THEY'LL PILE UP THE
SNOW AND IT'S ALL OVER THAT
NICE LITTLE RAMP THAT'S MADE
FOR ACCESSIBILITY AND THEY'RE
SUPPOSED TO TAKE CARE OF THAT A
LOT BETTER.
YOU KNOW, THOSE KIND
OF SIDEWALKS AND THERE'S THEY
ALSO WILL STILL HAVE A PARKING
BAN DURING STORMS BUT EXEMPT
ARE EXEMPT ARE DRIVEWAYS ARE
NOT EXEMPT.
>> BUT IF YOU HAVE WELL,
CERTAIN DRIVEWAYS NO CERTAIN
DRIVEWAYS ARE EXEMPT LIKE
DRIVEWAYS TO BUSINESSES OR
DRIVEWAYS TO CITY PLACES ARE
ARE EXEMPT OR PEOPLE THAT HAVE
PLACARDS THEY DON'T LIKE THE
THE THE HANDICAPPED PIKELET
THAT YOU HAVE WHICH ALLOWS YOU
TO PARK YOU CAN I GUESS YOU CAN
PARK THERE YOU DON'T GET MUGGED
BY THE BAND AND THEN THEN THEY
WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT WHEN THE
BUS RIDES THAT MORE PEOPLE HAVE
SAFE PLACES TO CATCH THE BUS SO
THAT YOU KNOW SO THAT YOU DON'T
GO SLIDING DOWN.
SO THEY'RE TRY TO GET A LOT
OF YOU EVER SLIDE DOWN A
SNOWBANK TO CATCH THE BUS?
I HAVE.
SO THEY'RE GOING TO TRY TO
AVOID SOME OF THAT THIS YEAR.
>> THEY'RE GOING TO TRY TO GET
MORE BUS STOPS CLEARED OUT
AND
THERE'S THERE'S STILL GOING TO
BE WORKING ON SAFE STREETS
SPRAWL WHICH HAS BEEN SOMETHING
THEY'VE BEEN WORKING ON AND
HOLD ON WEST OF SOUTH OK,
THEY'RE GOING THEY'RE DOING
STILL DOING CONSTRUCTION AND
THEY JUST FINISHED CONSTRUCTION
ON MILLER WHERE THE SECTION UP
ON MILLER AND MAPLE MAPLE AREA
DOWN TOWARDS SEVENTH.
THEY'VE SAID THEY'VE FINISHED
THAT AND THEY SAID THEY
FINISHED HGBERG OUT THERE
BEHIND CAMPUS AND THAT'S ABOUT
IT.
AND THE REASON I THE REASON I
ASK THE INDIVIDUAL EARLIER THAT
WAS DOING THE BVA IS IS BECAUSE
I THOUGHT SHE MIGHT SHOW UP BUT
IF SHE DOESN'T AND YOU HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS CONCERN THAT FOURTH
STREET IS THAT FOURTH AVENUE
CONSTRUCTION YOU CAN EMAIL ME
OR GIVE ME A DROP ME A LINE
BEFORE SEVEN AND I'LL MENTION
IT AT THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION.
>> EITHER WAY I THOUGHT SHE WAS
GOING TO DO A REPORT DOWN THERE
BUT BUT SINCE SHE'S NOT, I'M
SURE THAT THAT'S GOING TO COME
UP AGENDA ITEM FOR THE EITHER
THE UPCOMING MEETING OR I'LL BE
ABLE TO MENTION IT.
SO AS FAR AS THAT GOES, THAT'S
COMMISSIONER SOLOMON, LOVE YOUR
HENDRY'S.
>> YEAH.
FIRST OFF, THANK YOU, LARRY,
FOR YOUR CONTINUING KIND
OF REPRESENTATION OF OUR
COMMUNITY ON THESE COMMISSIONS
.
>> IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT WORK
AND I'M GRATEFUL FOR IT.
JUST A POINT OF CLARIFICATION.
YOU WERE SAYING SOMETHING TO
THE EFFECT OF IF ONE HAS A
HANDICAPPED PLACARD THAT
SOMEHOW RELATES TO SNOW REMOVAL
OR THE THE THE OK, I DIDN'T
MEAN TO CUT YOU OFF ALL OF IT.
WAS IT SUCH THAT YOU'RE EXACTLY
THE KIND OF SNOW REMOVAL OR
YOU'RE EXEMPT FROM LOOKING IN?
>> I DIDN'T UNDERSTAND.
YOU KNOW THERE'S A PARKING BAN
.
THERE'LL BE A PARKING BAN
DURING A SNOWSTORM WITH THE
INTENTION I'M WITH THE
INTENTION THAT YOU DON'T GET
CARS PARKED IN THE MIDDLE
OF THE STREET KNOW SNOW SNOW
REMOVAL VEHICLES CAN'T
ADEQUATELY REMOVE THE SNOW.
BUT IF YOU'VE GOT ONE OF THE
HANDICAPPED PARKING THAT YOU
GET FROM SECRETARY OF STATE,
YOU'RE EXEMPT FROM THE BAN.
SO BECAUSE YOU MAY HAVE TO PARK
CLOSER TO TO A STREET OR MAY
NOT BE ABLE TO MOVE YOUR CAR
FOR SOME REASON SO YOU'RE
EXEMPT FROM THE BAN.
>> THANK YOU.
IN OTHER WORDS, THEY CAN PICK
YOU UP, YOU GET A TICKET, YOU
IF YOU JUST PARK THERE BUT IF
YOU HAVE A HANDICAPPED PLACARD
THEY THINK THEY CAN'T TICKET
YOU.
>> THAT'S THE EXPLANATION I
NEED.
APPRECIATE COMMISSIONER PACARD
.
>> YES, THANK YOU.
I WAS WHAT DO WE DO IN THE SNOW
STORM SITUATIONS FOR SOMEONE
WITH A DISABILITY OR DO THE
AGING MAYBE CAN'T GET OUT TO
GET THEIR DRIVEWAY OR THEIR
SIDEWALKS CLEAR WHO MIGHT NEED
HELP BUT I GET PEOPLE SIGN UP
TO YOU.
>> I DON'T KNOW I DON'T KNOW
HOW TO APPLY FOR THAT.
YOU CAN'T APPLY THOSE FOR US TO
FIND THAT OUT.
I HAVE TO FIND THAT OUT TONIGHT
IS A QUESTION.
I'LL BRING THAT UP AS A
QUESTION BECAUSE I KNOW YOU CAN
DO IT BUT I THINK YOU HAVE TO
APPLY FOR SOMEWHERE IN THE CITY
TO DO SO THEY DON'T CHARGE YOU.
>> BUT SO THE SNOW REMOVAL
PROGRAM IS A PROGRAM THAT'S PUT
ON BY THE CITY.
IF YOU GO TO THE CITY'S
WEBSITE, ROB, THEY HAVE AN
ACTUAL PAGE PAGE DEDICATED TO
THIS PROGRAM.
SO WE KNOW ANYBODY, FOR
EXAMPLE, WHO NEEDS ASSISTANCE
OR IF YOU KNOW SOMEBODY WHO
WOULD LIKE TO VOLUNTEER TO HELP
WITH THE SNOW REMOVAL PROCESS,
ALL THE INFORMATION WOULD BE ON
THE ON THE PAGE.
>> WELL, THANK YOU FOR SHARING
THAT WITH THE COURSE.
>> I HAD TRIED TO CONTACT THEM
BECAUSE I LIVE IN A COMPLEX
THAT PRETTY MUCH DOES MOST
OF MINE DON'T I JUST COULDN'T
REMEMBER THE NAME OF THE
PROGRAM SO I'LL LOOK IT UP.
>> MENTIONER SOLOMON YEAH.
THIS WAS ACTUALLY A FOLLOW UP
FOR YOU KENNEDY SO IS THIS
NOBODY'S PROGRAM AND IS THAT
PURELY VOLUNTARY?
I MEAN WHAT HAPPENS IF SOMEBODY
NEEDS THESE SERVICES BUT
THERE'S NO GOOD SAMARITAN
THAT'S ABLE TO HELP THEM OUT?
I'M JUST CONCERNED ABOUT THAT
EVENTUALITY WHICH I'M SURE
HAPPENS A LOT IN OUR COMMUNITY.
>> WHAT ABOUT SNOW REMOVAL AND
THAT PROGRAM ARE TWO DIFFERENT
PROGRAMS.
I THINK THAT PROGRAM IS
SOMETHING THAT'S OUTSIDE OF THE
CITY BUT WITH THE CITIES
PROGRAM YOU DO HAVE TO BE I
BELIEVE LIKE LIKE IF IF YOU'RE
DISABLED OR LIKE A SENIOR
RESIDENT EVEN IF THERE AREN'T
ANY VOLUNTEER, THERE WILL BE
SOMEBODY THERE TO HELP REMOVE
THE SNOW.
BUT THEY DO ASK FOR VOLUNTEERS
.
SO FOR EXAMPLE, IF YOU'RE
TRYING TO COMPLETE LIKE
COMMUNITY SERVICE HOURS OR
THINGS LIKE THAT, SOME
ORGANIZATIONS DO COME TO
VOLUNTEER TO HELP REMOVE SNOW
OUT OF THE COMMUNITY.
>> IS THERE A WAY TO PROVIDE
THAT HERB?
>> OH, GO AHEAD.
OH, I WAS JUST WONDERING CAN
YOU PROVIDE A DIRECT LINK AND
SOME TYPE OF COMMUNICATION SO
WE CAN ALL BE SURE TO KNOW
EXACTLY SEND IT?
>> YEAH, THAT WOULD BE REALLY,
REALLY HELPFUL.
>> I'M NOT YOU KNOW, HAVING
SERVED ON THIS COMMISSION FOR A
NUMBER OF YEARS, I'M NOT FULLY
AWARE OF THIS PROGRAM.
>> SO I WILL FIND THE PAGE FOR
IT AND THEN I WILL SHARE IT IN
AN E-MAIL.
>> THANK YOU.
I DO HAVE A COMMENT ABOUT
NOBODY'S TOO I HAVEN'T HEARD
OF IT I HAVEN'T HEARD ABOUT
SNOWBOARDING DURING MY FOUR
YEARS BUT THEY WERE DOING
SNOWBOARDING WERE DOING
SPECIFIC NEIGHBORHOODS.
THEY WEREN'T THROUGHOUT THE
WHOLE THEY WERE SEPARATE GROUP
AND THERE WERE CERTAIN AREAS
WHERE SNOWBOARDING WERE THEY
HAD BOUGHT THEIR OWN EQUIPMENT
AND IT WAS A TOTALLY VOLUNTARY
THING AND IT WAS IT WAS BASED
PARTICULARLY IN THEIR
NEIGHBORHOODS.
MY NEIGHBORHOOD DIDN'T HAVE IT
BUT THEN AFTER THAT I THERE WAS
A BIG THING A FEW YEARS AGO
GOING ON ABOUT TRYING TO GET
SNOWBOARDING MORE INVOLVED BUT
I DON'T THINK IT WENT TOO FAR.
I MEAN I THINK THEY'RE STILL
OUT THERE.
BUT YOU HAVE TO LIVE IN THEIR
COMMUNITY WHICHEVER ONE THAT IT
WOULD BE A REMEMBER WE WERE I
THINK WE WERE DISCUSSING THAT
OH THAT WILL BE HELPFUL WHEN WE
HAVE OUR SOCIAL MEDIA PAGES UP.
IT'S AS SUCCESSFUL AS WE CAN
PROMOTE THE CITY AND THE
SNOWBOARDING PROGRAM.
>> SO YEAH, BIGGER AND BETTER
THINGS COMING UP.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WELL THANK YOU.
OH, COMMISSIONER BROZAK.
YES, THANK YOU.
I JUST WANTED TO ADD MORE TO
THE SNOWBOARDED STATION SO OUR
COMMISSION HAS BEEN IN CONTACT
WITH SNOWBOARDING FOR MANY,
MANY YEARS PRE PANDEMIC IT IS A
PROGRAM THAT IS RUN THROUGH THE
WATER HILL DISTRICT STRICTLY
ALL VOLUNTARY DUES.
OUR MONEY IS COLLECTED THROUGH
THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND WHATEVER
IT HASN'T ADVANCED OUTSIDE
OF THEIR NEIGHBORHOOD NOT FOR
WANT OF TRYING.
THEY HAVE SHARED THEIR BUSINESS
MODEL AND HAVE TALKED WITH US
HAVE TALKED WITH THE CITY BUT
NOBODY'S RIGHT NOW IS STRICTLY
THE WATER HILL DISTRICT ONLY
LET THEM COME UP.
I HAVE TO COME UP WITH THE LAST
POLL MAYBE TEN YEARS OR SO
ANYWAY SINCE I'VE BEEN ON THE
COMMISSION AND THERE'S BEEN NO
REAL REAL HEADWAY.
>> WE TALKED TO THEM ON
OCCASION BUT THAT'S ABOUT IT.
>> SOLOMON YEAH.
GIVEN THAT LONG SERIES
OF CONVERSATIONS I JUST WANT TO
CONFIRM WITH YOU KENNEDY WHAT
YOU ARE SAYING IS THAT THE CITY
IS FULLY COMMITTED TO SNOW
REMOVAL FOR DISABLED RESIDENTS.
>> IS THAT THE CASE BECAUSE
AGAIN IT SEEMED LIKE A FEW
YEARS AGO IT WAS VERY HIT OR
MISS ONE HAD TO DEPEND ON
CHARITY.
BUT THE WAY YOU DESCRIBE THIS
PROGRAM, IT CERTAINLY SOUNDS
LIKE THE CITY IS FULLY
COMMITTED TO SNOW REMOVAL FOR
DISABLED RESIDENTS.
>> AM I AM I UNDERSTAND THAT
CORRECTLY ON MY SCREEN RIGHT
NOW IS THE HOME PAGE I'M
SHARING MY SCREEN.
>> CAN EVERYONE SEE MY SCREEN?
>> OH YES.
OH THANK YOU.
SO THE CITY'S PROGRAM IS CALLED
THIS NO-MATCH PROGRAM.
THIS IS THE PAGE THAT WILL TELL
YOU ABOUT INFORMATION AND
THINGS LIKE THAT.
IT ALSO HAS FREQUENTLY ASKED
QUESTIONS AT THE BOTTOM.
SO IF YOU GUYS HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS ABOUT THE PROGRAM,
HERE ARE SOME FREQUENTLY ASKED
QUESTIONS HERE.
IF YOU HAVE QUESTIONS YOU ALSO
CAN EMAIL THEM.
IT SAYS THE BEST WAY TO CONTACT
THEM AS SOON AS POSSIBLE IS
THAT THE EIGHT TO SNOW MATCH AT
A TWO GUBJRG EMAIL SO I'M
GOING TO DO OR IF YOU LIKE
AGAIN HERE'S THE EITHER SIGN UP
TO VOLUNTEER OR RECEIVE PUBLIC
ASSISTANCE.
ALL THIS INFORMATION IS
AVAILABLE ON THE WEBSITE.
SO WHAT I'M GOING TO DO IS I'M
GOING TO SEND OUT A LINK THAT
DIRECTS YOU ALL TO THIS WEBSITE
AND IT'LL HAVE ON THE INTERNET
ALL THE INFORMATION AND DETAILS
THAT YOU NEED JUST TO CLARIFY
IT SAYS RECIPIENTS OF THE
VOLUNTEER SERVICES MUST BE
CITIZEN RESIDENTS 55 YEARS
OF AGE OR SELF IDENTIFY AS
HAVING A DISABILITY AND DO NOT
HAVE RESOURCES NECESSARY TO
ASSIST IN SNOW REMOVAL.
>> YEAH, I MEAN IT ALSO SAYS ON
THERE THAT THERE'S NO
GUARANTEED MATCH SO I THINK
THAT'S JUST IMPORTANT FOR THE
COMMISSION TO FULLY UNDERSTAND
.
>> OK, YEAH SOUNDS LIKE VERY
MUCH LIKE IF THAT WORKS OUT
GREAT
BUT THERE'S NO GUARANTEES
WHICH IS I THINK A CONTINUING
CONCERN FOR DISABLED RESIDENTS
AND HOPEFULLY SOMETHING THAT WE
AS A COMMISSION CAN ADVOCATE
FOR MORE VIGOROUSLY WHETHER
THROUGH THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION OR ELSEWHERE.
BUT IT ONCE AGAIN SEEMS LIKE A
VOLUNTEER IF YOU MAKE A MATCH
NOT UNLIKE SNOWBOARDED THEN
YOU'RE OK.
BUT IF NOT WHAT ARE DISABLED
RESIDENTS, OUR ELDERLY
RESIDENTS GOING TO DO?
THIS IS A YEARLY CONCERN AND I
STILL VERY MUCH CONCERN ABOUT
WHAT THAT LOOKS LIKE FOR PEOPLE
WITH DISABILITIES.
>> I THINK WE HAVE TO CONTINUE
TO CONTINUE TO BUG THEM BUT I
THINK WITH THIS STARTED I
STARTED WORKING IN THIS WITH
WHEN I GOT ON THIS BIG THE
SAFETY WAS WORKING WITH THE
SAFETY COMMISSION FOR A WHILE
IN 2016 I THINK WE STARTED SOME
OF THESE MEETINGS AND THE THE
CITY HAS ADVANCED BUT THE CITY
HAS ADVANCED A LOT SINCE THEN.
>> WE'VE GOTTEN TO THEY'VE
CONCEDED TO A LOT OF THE NEEDS
THAT WE BROUGHT UP.
SO I THINK WE HAVE GOT TO I
THINK YOU'RE RIGHT.
>> WE GOT TO KEEP ON BUGGING
THEM A LITTLE BIT MORE.
>> BUT WE'RE WE'RE GETTING
THERE THAT ONE IS SHOWING
PROGRESS
.
>> ALL RIGHT.
ANYTHING ELSE ON THIS OR WE TRY
TO MOVE FORWARD.
ALL RIGHT.
ON NEXT I'D LIKE TO MOVE ON TO
THE EUROPEAN COUNCIL FOR
DISABILITY CONCERNS REPORT WITH
MR. MATTHEW SOLOMON.
MATTHEW, SO THE CFTC AS IT'S
CALLED MET ON TUESDAY NOVEMBER
11TH ON VETERANS DAY.
AND JUST AS A REMINDER, THE
COMMISSION THESE MEETINGS ARE
ALL OPEN TO THE PUBLIC AND THEY
ARE ALL ON ZOOM'S SO EVERYONE
IS WELCOME FROM TWELVE TO ONE.
I JUST WANT TO GET ON THEIR
MAILING LIST AND YOU'LL GET
NOTICES ABOUT THOSE MEETINGS
AND THE ZOOME LOCATIONS BY THE
NOVEMBER 11TH MEETING WAS
MOSTLY TAKEN UP WITH GAS
PRESENTATION FROM JOHN WHERE
WHO IS PART OF THE AMERICAN
FEDERATION OF TEACHERS.
SOME OF THE MEMBERS OF THE CFTC
WERE CURIOUS ABOUT LABOR
ORGANIZING AND HOW THAT RELATED
TO ADVOCACY FOR DISABLED
PERSONS AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN.
SO WE WERE GIVEN FAIRLY
DETAILED PRESENTATION ABOUT
THOSE ISSUES FROM JOHN WHERE IT
TURNS OUT THAT LABOR
ORGANIZATION CANNOT REALLY
HAPPEN ACROSS JOB CATEGORIES.
SO THERE ONE COULD CAUCUS
WITHIN INDIVIDUAL LABOR
ORGANIZATIONS AS A GROUP
OF PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES BUT
NOT ACROSS JOB CLASSIFICATIONS.
SO THAT WAS EDUCATIONAL.
THE REST OF THE MEETING WAS
TAKEN UP AND THE MEETING WENT
OVER TIME BECAUSE PEOPLE WERE
REALLY HAD A LOT OF THINGS THEY
WANTED TO DISCUSS.
THEY FELT LIKE THERE WAS A
GROUP OF VOICES IN THE CFTC
THAT FELT LIKE THERE WASN'T
REALLY THE SPACE FOR THE KIND
OF EXCHANGE THAT THEY REALLY
VALUED ABOUT THAT ORGANIZATION
.
I CAN'T SPEAK TO THOSE DAYS
BECAUSE I ONLY RECENTLY STARTED
ATTENDING THOSE MEETINGS AS A
REPRESENTATIVE THIS COMMISSION
.
BUT THERE WAS DEFINITELY SOME
SENTIMENT THAT PEOPLE WERE
MISSING THE COMMUNITY.
THE EXCHANGE AND THAT THERE WAS
JUST FAR TOO MANY PRESENTATIONS
WHERE WE'RE ALL KIND OF CAPTIVE
AUDIENCES FOR WHOEVER THE
SPEAKER OF THE MONTH WAS.
AND SO THAT WAS AN ACTIVE POINT
OF DISCUSSION AS WERE IDEAL
METHODS OF COMMUNICATION.
IT WAS POINTED OUT THAT THERE
WAS NO WAY FOR CFTC MEMBERS TO
ACTUALLY MESSAGE ONE ANOTHER.
>> THERE WAS ONLY A KIND
OF CENTRAL EMAIL NEWSLETTER
THAT WENT OUT EVERY WEEK.
SOME MEMBERS WERE FINE WITH
SOME MRS FELT LIKE THEY
REALLY WANTED TO BE IN CLOSER
CONTACT AND BE ABLE TO HAVE
DIRECT COMMUNICATION WITH
FELLOW MEMBERS OF THE CFTC SO
WE'LL SEE WHAT THAT MEANS
MOVING FORWARD, WHETHER THERE
WILL BE A CHANGE IN THE FORMAT
OF THE MEETINGS TO HAVE MORE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR EXCHANGE.
I THINK AS I REPORTED LAST
MONTH THERE WAS A REAL
DEPARTURE WHERE THERE WERE JUST
BREAKOUT ROOMS AND PEOPLE
TALKED AND I THINK THAT STARTED
PLANNING IDEAS THAT THIS COULD
LOOK DIFFERENT, COULD FEEL
DIFFERENT AND THIS COULD MAYBE
BE MORE BENEFICIAL TO OUR
COMMUNITY MEMBERS IF WE ADOPTED
A DIFFERENT FORMAT NOT ONLY FOR
THE MEETINGS THEMSELVES BUT FOR
COMMUNICATION.
SO I THINK WE ON THIS
COMMISSION SHOULD BE ALERT TO
THOSE DEVELOPMENTS AND THOSE
POSSIBILITIES AND I'LL CONTINUE
REPORTING ON WHERE THAT
DISCUSSION LEADS US IN THE
FUTURE.
BUT AGAIN, IF ANYONE IS
INTERESTED, I WOULD URGE YOU TO
CARVE OUT AN HOUR OF YOUR WEEK
AND SIT IN ON THOSE MEETINGS.
I HAVE A QUESTION.
>> OK, GO AHEAD, LARRY.
THE QUESTION IS I WELL I
OCCASIONALLY HEAR COMPLAINTS.
FOR EXAMPLE, I HEAR THAT THE
WHITE DOOR DON'T WORK PROPERLY,
THAT THE BUTTONS AT THE MAIN
DOORS DON'T WORK FOR
ACCESSITY.
YOU KNOW YOU CAN'T CAN'T PRESS
THE BUTTON.
IT DOESN'T ALWAYS WORK.
AND WHO WOULD I BRING THOSE TO
YOU, COMMISSIONER SOLOMON OR
COMMISSIONER MOSAICA?
WHAT I ATTEND THE MEETING AND
HOW WHAT'S THE APPROPRIATE WAY
TO TAKE CARE OF COMPLAINTS THAT
I BELIEVE THERE IS AN ONLINE
PORTAL FOR ACCESSIBILITY
BARRIERS.
I WOULD NEED TO LOOK FOR WHERE
THAT LIVES ON THE VAST
INFORMATION ARCHITECTURE OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN BUT MY
UNDERSTANDING IS THAT THERE'S A
KIND OF ONLINE PORTAL WHERE ONE
CAN REPORT ACCESSIBILITY
BARRIERS INCLUDING SUBMITTING
PHOTOGRAPHS.
I THINK I AM GOING TO NEED TO
CHECK ON THIS BUT IT'S MY
UNDERSTANDING I HAVE CERTAINLY
REPORTED THINGS TO BUILDINGS
AND GROUNDS THROUGH THEIR
PORTAL BUT I WAS UNDER THE
IMPRESSION THAT THERE'S A
DEDICATED ONLINE PORTAL FOR
SUCH ISSUES.
>> I WOULD NEED TO LOOK INTO
THAT A LITTLE BIT AND DO YOU
HAVE TO BE A U OF M STUDENT U
OF M STUDENT OR FACULTY MEMBER
THANKS TO THE USE THAT IT'S A
VERY GOOD QUESTION BECAUSE I
THINK A LOT THESE THINGS YOU
KNOW YOU NEED A UNIQUE NAME BUT
I DON'T KNOW ABOUT THOSE ARE
BOTH REALLY GOOD QUESTIONS.
IS THERE A PORTAL AND WHO CAN
REPORT?
>> I WOULD APPRECIATE IF YOU
GET A CHANCE IF YOU COULD SEND
ME THE INFORMATION THERE'S A
PLACE BY EMAIL AND PHONE NUMBER
SO I'M PRETTY SURE YOU'VE BEEN
IN CONTACT BEFORE LEARNING.
YEAH, YEAH.
I HAVE TO SEE IF YOU'RE IN MY
THING BUT IF YOU'RE NOT I CAN
GET IT SO NO THAT'S THAT'S MY
QUESTION HOW YOU BRING STUFF UP
LIKE THAT TO IT'S A VERY I'M
UNDER THE IMPRESSION THAT
THERE'S A CENTRALIZED WAY
OF DOING THAT BUT I'M GOING TO
WANT TO LOOK INTO THAT AND GET
BACK TO YOU.
>> OK, THANK YOU.
YEAH.
IF ANYBODY ON THIS COMMISSION
HAPPENS TO KNOW I'M HERE I WAS
LOOKING FOR IT.
>> I I ALSO BELIEVE THAT THERE
IS A FORM I HAVEN'T FOUND IT
YET BUT THERE IS A DIGITAL
ACCESSIBILITY FORM SO IF THERE
IS DIGITAL INFORMATION I FOUND
THAT FORM BUT I'M STILL LOOKING
FOR THE OTHER ONE IF I FIND MY
NEXT STORY.
>> YEAH, I WAS UNDER THE
IMPRESSION THERE WAS A SIMILAR
KIND OF PORTAL
.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WELL THANK YOU GUYS AND THANK
YOU MATTHEW AND THANK YOU TO
THE CFTC FOR ALL THEY DO.
YOU KNOW MATTHEW, I ECHO ECHO
YOUR COMMENT THAT THERE'S
ANYBODY WATCHING OR ANYBODY ON
THIS COMMISSION THAT ALSO WANTS
TO BE INVOLVED WITH THAT OR
ATTEND HIGHLY RECOMMENDED THANK
YOU.
NEXT TO KEEP THINGS MOVING, I'D
LIKE TO MOVE ON TO THE CHAIR
REPORT.
SO FIRST OF ALL, I JUST WANT TO
POINT OUT THAT WE WILL HAVE A
KODAI PHOTO OPPORTUNITY TO MAKE
SURE THAT WE CAN GET A FULL
PHOTO OF ALL OF THE GREAT
COMMISSIONERS AND WHAT WE'RE
DOING ON WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER
17TH.
NOW THIS WILL ALSO COINCIDE
WITH OUR MEETING SO I JUST WANT
TO LET THE COMMISSIONERS KNOW
THAT THIS WILL THEN BE AN
IN-PERSON AND VIRTUAL SO HYBRID
MEETING.
SO THOSE WHO WOULD LIKE TO COME
AND BE A PART OF THE IN-PERSON
PHOTO OPPORTUNITY AT THE CITY
ALL BUILDING AND COUNCIL
CHAMBERS YOU'RE THEN MORE THAN
WELCOME TO STAY IN PERSON AT
COUNCIL CHAMBERS FOR THE
MEETING.
BUT THEN WE WILL ALSO HAVE A
PERSONAL OPTION AS WELL FOR
THOSE COMMISSIONERS WHO YOU
KNOW WOULD LIKE TO ATTEND THE
MEETING VIRTUALLY AND ALSO
THOSE
IN THE COMMUNITY WHO
WOULD LIKE TO ATTEND THE
MEETING VIRTUALLY AS WELL.
SO I JUST WANT TO MAKE THAT
CLEAR.
SO WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 17TH
AGAIN THAT'S OUR DECEMBER
MEETING WILL BE IN PERSON AND
VIRTUAL A HYBRID MEETING AT
CITY COUNCIL CHAMBERS AND
ONLINE.
AND THEN ALSO I DID WANT TO
MENTION AS WELL THAT ONE SECOND
I JUST LOST MY PLACE
UNFORTUNATELY.
>> COMMISSIONER MOSADDEQ, YOU
HAD A QUESTION.
OH YEAH.
GO AHEAD.
>> ACTUALLY I DO.
IT'S IN REGARDS TO THE HYBRID
MEETING HOW ARE WE NAVIGATING
THE OPEN MEETINGS ACT WITH
THIS?
IT'S MY UNDERSTANDING THAT
DURING COVID WE PERSONS' WITH
DISABILITIES KUDZAI AND HAVE A
DOCTOR'S NOTE AND THEY WOULD BE
ABLE TO BE PART OF THE QUORUM.
SO IN OTHER WORDS, I SIT ON
OTHER BOARDS WHERE IF THEY HAVE
TO BE OUT BECAUSE OF ILLNESS
THEY HAVE THIS DOCTOR'S NOTE
THEY'RE STILL ABLE TO VOTE AND
WHATNOT BECAUSE THEY TOOK CARE
OF THAT BUSINESS DURING COVID
MY CONCERN IS IS THAT OUR
COMMISSION HAS BEEN MEETING
VIRTUALLY AND IF WE WANT TO DO
AS WITH THE O'MAY, HOW DO WE
NAVIGATE VOTING KENNEDY AND
QUORUM?
>> SO WHAT I'M GOING TO DO IS
I'M GOING TO SINCE AGAIN THIS
WAS ALL OF COURSE FROM THE
ARTICLE I'M GOING TO CHECK IN
WITH THE CLERK'S OFFICE JUST TO
VERIFY IF ANYTHING PERTAINING
TO THE O'MAY AND VOTING AND
THINGS LIKE THAT WILL AFFECT
THE DECEMBER MEETING AND TO
FOLLOW THEIR INSTRUCTIONS ON
WHAT TO DO SO I WILL UPDATE THE
COMMISSION ON WHAT I RECEIVED
FROM THEM.
>> I APPRECIATE IT.
THANK YOU.
NO PROBLEM.
YEAH.
THANK YOU, KATHLEEN.
AND THEN LASTLY MY OTHER POINT
ON THE CHAIR REPORT VICE CHAIR
KEELER TOUCHED ON THIS PRIOR
BUT JUST WANTED TO SAY THAT WE
ARE STILL IN THE PROCESS
OF REVIEWING THE COMMISSION
BYLAWS.
SO AS COMMISSIONER COMMISSIONER
KEELER TOUCHED ON EARLIER, WE
WILL BE REVIEWING THOSE AND BE
ABLE TO THEN TALK ABOUT THE
BYLAWS DISCUSSION NEXT MONTH AS
WELL.
SO THAT WILL BE DONE AT THE
DECEMBER MEETING AS FAR AS THE
CHAIR REPORTS, THAT IS ALL THAT
I HAVE ANY QUESTIONS OR
COMMENTS.
ALL RIGHT.
I NEXT MOVING ON TO ANY OLD
BUSINESS WEEK SEEMS LIKE OH WE
HAVE SOME OLD BUSINESS SO OUR
NEWLY FORMED SOCIAL MEDIA
COMMITTEE DID EAT AND I CAN
GIVE THAT UPDATE BUT I GUESS
SAMMETH IF YOU FEEL COMFORTABLE
DON'T MEAN TO PUT YOU ON THE
SPOT THERE.
BUT I DO WANTED TO GIVE YOU
SOME TIME.
I HAVE A PLATFORM FOR THAT AS
WELL AND AND MENTION ANYTHING
THAT YOU'D LIKE AS FAR AS THE
SOCIAL COMMITTEE MEDIA
COMMITTEE BY CIRCULAR ALSO DID
MENTION THAT WE WILL HAVE
CONTACT WITH THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN SOCIAL MEDIA TEAM.
THEY OFFERED TO GIVE US SOME
POINTERS SO I WILL BE REACHING
OUT TO THEM TO SCHEDULE THAT
CORRESPONDENCE.
BUT COMMISSIONER FRANK AND
BOWER AND OR COMMISSIONER
PACKARD ANYTHING ELSE FOR THE
SOCIAL MEDIA COMMITTEE UPDATE?
I'M NOT REALLY I MEAN WE DID
MEET WE TALKED ABOUT THE GOALS
FOR SOCIAL MEDIA OUTREACH,
RAISING AWARENESS, ENGAGING
WITH RESIDENT FOR POTENTIAL
COMMENT AND SUGGESTION
REMINDERS ABOUT COMMUNITY
MEETINGS AND EVENTS HAPPENING.
THERE WAS THIS IDEA OF SOCIAL
MEDIA BEING LIKE A SPACE TO
PROVIDE INSPIRATION, ADVICE AND
INFORMATION.
SO WE WERE KIND OF THINKING
ALONG THOSE LINES.
WE DISCUSSED WHAT TO INCLUDE ON
A SOCIAL MEDIA PAGE THAT WE
WOULD MAYBE START LIKE FACEBOOK
WHICH HAS A LOT
OF ACCESSIBILITY OPTIONS THE
AUDIENCES IDEAL ENGAGEMENT AND
THEN I THINK OUR NEXT STEPS
WERE TO TALK TO THE WELL TO
THINK OF THE INDEPENDENT
COMMUNITY POLICE OVERSIGHT
COMMISSION THEIR OUTREACH
BECAUSE THEY HAVE SOCIAL MEDIA
PRESENCE AND THEN MEET WITH THE
NEW COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR
WITH EXAMPLES OF WHAT A
POTENTIAL FACEBOOK PAGE WOULD
LOOK LIKE, WHAT A POTENTIAL
LIKE SUGGESTIONS OR COMMENTS
FORM WOULD LOOK LIKE.
>> AND YEAH, I THINK THAT'S
BASICALLY EVERYTHING THAT WE
TALKED ABOUT.
>> BUT FROM WHAT I CAN
RECOLLECT YEAH ABSOLUTELY SAM
AND I RECOLLECT THAT AS WELL.
SO THANK YOU FOR THAT REPORT
AND YOU KNOW, I'M EXCITED TO
CONNECT WITH THE NEW CITY
COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR AS WELL
AS THE SOCIAL MEDIA TEAM AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN VERY
EXCITED THAT THEY WANTED THAT
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
WANTED TO ENGAGE WITH US AND
OUR COMMITTEE AND GIVE US SOME
POINTERS.
SO GREAT.
>> ALL RIGHT.
NEXT UNDER NEW BUSINESS GUYS.
SO HERE WE ARE.
>> WE ARE AT A POINT WHERE YOU
NEED TO HAVE ELECTIONS AND SO
AT THIS POINT I WOULD LIKE TO
COMMENCE OUR TWENTY TWENTY FIVE
COMMISSION ELECTION FOR VICE
CHAIR AND FOR CHAIR AND VICE
CHAIR POSITIONS AS MENTIONED IN
PREVIOUS CORRESPONDENCE, IF YOU
WANTED TO BE A CANDIDATE FOR
EITHER POSITION YOU COULD HAVE
EITHER SENT YOUR NOMINATION AND
TO KENNEDY TO LET THEM KNOW OR
YOU CAN MENTION IT HERE THAT
YOU WOULD LIKE TO BE CONSIDERED
AS A CANDIDATE FOR CHAIR OR
VICE CHAIR AT THIS POINT I WANT
TO OPEN IT TO THE FLOOR IF
THERE ARE ANY COMMISSIONERS WHO
I WOULD LIKE TO PRESENT THEIR
CANDIDACY AT THIS TIME I WOULD
BE COMMISSIONER OUR CHAIRMAN
THAT I WOULD ACTUALLY CALL FOR
NOMINATIONS FROM THE FLOOR AT
THIS POINT AND I JUST CONFIRM
NOMINATIONS FOR CHAIR AND THEN
VICE CHAIR INSTEAD OF PUT THEM
TOGETHER.
SURE.
I THINK THAT'S FINE.
ALL RIGHT.
SO YEAH, WE CAN CALL FOR
NOMINATIONS IF ANYBODY HAS ANY
NOMINATIONS FOR CHAIRMAN AND
VICE CHAIRMAN AT THIS
.
>> OK, NO NOMINATIONS.
IS THERE ANYONE AT THIS TIME
WHO WOULD LIKE TO NOMINATE
THEMSELVES FOR CHAIR OR VICE
CHAIR I KENNEDY THIS IS JACK.
>> WELL, PER OUR BYLAWS I JUST
WANT TO POINT OUT SO THAT I DO
THINGS CORRECTLY AND
TRANSPARENTLY THAT YOU KNOW,
I'M HAPPY TO CONTINUE MY POST
AS CHAIRMAN BUT OUR CURRENT
BYLAWS YOU GUYS I WAS NOTIFIED
THAT YOU KNOW, I'VE SERVED I
THINK FOUR TERMS AS CHAIRMAN AT
THIS POINT AND SO PER OUR
BYLAWS I'M NOT ABLE TO EXCEED
THAT RIGHT NOW.
BUT WHAT I COULD DO IS SHIFT TO
VICE CHAIR AND THEN HAVE
SOMEONE ELSE BE CHAIRMAN IF I'M
CORRECT KENNEDY IS THAT CORRECT
?
>> YES, THAT'S CORRECT BECAUSE
YOU'VE COMPLETED TWO
CONSECUTIVE TERMS.
>> I'VE GOT IT.
OK, SO IN THAT CASE I AM
LEAVING YOURSELF FOR VICE
CHAIR.
>> YES I AM.
YES I AM NOMINATING MYSELF FOR
VICE CHAIR.
OK, GREAT.
OK DO WE HAVE A NOMINATION FOR
CHAIR I WILL NOMINATE MYSELF
RIGHT SO WE NOW HAVE A
NOMINATION FOR CHAIR AND VICE
CHAIR FOR THE COMMISSION
LARRAKEYAH HAS NOMINATED
HIMSELF FOR A CHAIR AND ZACH
DAMON HAS NOT BEEN NOMINATED
HIMSELF OR VICE CHAIR AT THIS
TIME.
THE COMMISSION CAN GO INTO A
DISCUSSION ABOUT BOTH
NOMINATIONS FOR STARTING WITH
THE CHAIR AND THEN THE VICE
CHAIR.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION AT THIS
TIME WHAT THE COMMISSION
REGARDING THE NOMINATION FOR
CHAIR OR VICE CHAIR
?
>> I JUST WANT TO SAY THAT I
WOULD BEORED TO SERVE AS
VICE CHAIRMAN TO WORK ALONGSIDE
ALL OF YOU AND CONTINUE TO DO
THE WORK THAT WE'RE DOING.
AND AS FAR AS THE NOMINATION
FOR CHAIRMAN, I WILL BE RIGHT
THERE BESIDE YOU AS A COPILOT
IF IF YOU ARE ELECTED AT THIS
TIME, IS THERE ANY ADDITIONAL
DISCUSSION OF CODDLERS AND I
WAS AS CHAIR WELL CONTINUE TO
UPHOLD AND TRY TO IMPROVE OUR
RELATIONS WITH THE CITY
GOVERNMENT AND OUR CITY CITY
GOVERNMENT AND ALL THE RELEVANT
COMMISSIONS THAT WILL HELP US
GET OUR GOALS ATTENDED TO.
ALL RIGHT.
ANY ADDITIONAL DISCUSSION ALL
RIGHT AT THIS TIME THEN WE CAN
MOVE INTO A VOTE SO WE'LL START
WITH THE CHAIR.
>> SOMEONE HAS TO MAKE A
MOTION.
ALL RIGHT.
I MAKE A MOTION TO VOTE FOR
CHAIRMAN AND VOTE FOR A
CANDIDATE.
MARY KEELER.
>> THIS IS THAT MOTION
.
OK, ARE THEY ALL IN FAVOR?
>> I I I SO IT HAS BEEN MOVED
THAT WITH THE MOTION OF GOOD
COMMISSIONER MOSAIC THAT
MERCADER BE THE CHAIR FOR THE
UPCOMING COMMISSION HERE.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THAT'S NOW BECAUSE NEXT WE MOVE
TO BE BUDGETER.
I'LL MAKE A MOTION THAT WE
APPROVE OR VOTE FOR THAT DAMON
AS VICE CHAIRMAN OF THE
COMMISSION ON DISABILITY CHOOSE
TO SECOND THAT MOTION ALL IN
FAVOR.
>> I, I THANK YOU GUYS.
IT'S AN HONOR AND A PRIVILEGE.
>> I APPRECIATE IT.
ALL RIGHT.
OK, SO WE'VE GOT THE MOTION
THEORY AND THEY BOTH MOTIONS
CARRY SO NOT THE NEXT MEETING
BUT THE MEETING AFTER THAT
STARTING I'M SORRY I SHOULD
JUST SAY STARTING JANUARY
TWENTY TWENTY SIX THE
COMMISSION'S CHAIR WOULD BE
LARRY KEELER AND THE
COMMISSIONER VICE CHAIR WILL BE
ZACK DAMON.
>> YES.
>> ANY QUESTIONS CONCERNING
YOUR PHONE SERVICE RECORD NEXT
?
ZACH, WE MOVE TO THE NEXT
TOPIC.
>> YES.
SO NEXT TOPIC IS TWENTY TWENTY
SIX CALENDAR YOU GUYS OF COURSE
WHERE IT'S CRAZY THAT WE'RE
ALREADY THERE BUT JUST WANTED
TO GO AHEAD.
>> OH SORRY.
I THOUGHT SOMEBODY WAS GOING TO
SAY SOMETHING.
OH THANK YOU KENNEDY.
YEAH I WANTED TO GET APPROVAL
OF THE TWENTY TWENTY SIX
CALENDARS SO IF ANY OF YOU HAVE
NOT SEEN IT KENNEDY IS NOW
SHOWING IT TO US ALL.
>> SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR
THAT KENNEDY SO THE FIRST ONE I
AM SHOWING SO YOU ALL HAVE TO
APPROVE TWO CALENDARS TODAY.
THE FIRST ONE IS FOR THE
PARTNERS AND ACCESS
SUBCOMMITTEE AND THEN THE
SECOND ONE I WILL BE SHOWING
WHAT ACTUALLY BE THE COMMISSION
SCHEDULE.
SO THE FIRST ONE WE HAVE RIGHT
NOW IS THE PARTNERS AND ACCESS
SUBCOMMITTEE MEETING.
THERE ARE NO CONFLICTING EXCEPT
FOR THE NOVEMBER MEETING DATE
OF NEXT YEAR BECAUSE THAT DATE
IS VETERANS DAY.
SO CITY HALL WILL BE CLOSED AND
WE WILL NOT BE ABLE TO MEET ON
THAT DAY.
AT THIS TIME THE COMMISSIONER
CAN THE COMMISSION CAN DISCUSS
ANY OTHER DATES BEFORE OR AFTER
THAT, MEANING THAT THEY WOULD
LIKE TO HOLD THE PARTNERS THE
NEXT MEETING IN NOVEMBER.
OK, IS THERE I'D LIKE TO MAKE A
MOTION TO APPROVE THE PARTNERS
AND ACCESS COMMITTEE MEETING
CALENDAR.
>> WE HAVE TO SO WE CAN'T
APPROVE THE CALENDAR WITH VERY
WELL YOU CAN YOU CAN MAKE THE
MOTION AND YOU CAN SECOND THE
MOTION BUT THEN YOU CAN DISCUSS
IT AND THEN VOTE ON IT IF YOU
WANT A KENNEDY.
WELL I WOULD SECOND THE MOTION
BUT NOW WE CAN DISCUSS IT AFTER
WE DO THAT CORRECT?
>> I WOULD SECOND THAT.
OK, SO NOW WE ARE IN THE
DISCUSSION PART OF IT AT THIS
TIME YOU GUYS.
YOU ALL YES.
COMMISSIONER MOZART I'M LOOKING
AT NOVEMBER 11TH IS THE DATE
THAT'S IN QUESTION FOR PARTNERS
AND ACCESS.
I'M WONDERING DO YOU HAVE A
CALENDAR HANDY SO THAT WE CAN
SEE WHAT THE WEDNESDAY BEFORE
THE WEDNESDAY AFTER IS OR DOES
ARE WE INTERESTED IN DOING ON
THE TUESDAY OR THE TUESDAY OR
THE THURSDAY THE NINTH OR THE
I'M SORRY THE TENTH OR THE
TWELFTH DIGIT.
>> SO FOR NOVEMBER TWENTY
TWENTY SIX I'M SORRY I'M
SHARING THIS I CAN'T SHARE THE
BOTH SCREENS BUT THE DATE
BEFORE THE ELEVEN IS NOVEMBER
10TH.
THAT'S A TUESDAY OR NOVEMBER
12TH.
THAT'S THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3RD
IS A TUESDAY.
THAT'S THE WEEK BEFORE THEN
THERE IS NOVEMBER FOR THAT'S
ALSO THE WEEK BEFORE AND
NOVEMBER 5TH THAT'S ALSO THE
WEEK BEFORE.
NOW THAT'S THAT'S THE SECOND
CORRECT.
>> NOW THE THIRD AND THE FOURTH
THE THIRD NOVEMBER 3RD IS THE
FIRST WEEK RIGHT?
NO THE NEXT IS THE SIXTEENTH.
>> THE MEETING IS OF COURSE THE
SECOND WEDNESDAY WHICH
OF COURSE WOULD BE THE SECOND
WEDNESDAY.
YEP.
SO I WOULD BE IN FAVOR THE TWO
PERSONALLY I HAVE TO SEE IF
EVERYBODY WANTS TO BUT I'D BE
IN FAVOR OF THE TUESDAY THE DAY
BEFORE NOVEMBER TEN I WOULD BE
IN FAVOR THAT I DON'T KNOW IF
ANYBODY ELSE WOULD BUT I MOVE I
WILL ALSO DO A MOTION THAT CAN
BE DISCUSSED.
I'LL MOVE THAT WE HAVE THE
NOVEMBER MEETING OF THE
PARTNERS AND ACCESS COMMITTEE
ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10TH.
I I SECOND THAT THIS IS
KATHLEEN
.
>> ANY DISCUSSION THIS IS THAT
THAT'S FINE.
YEAH THAT SOUNDS GREAT.
OK SO DO WE HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE PARTNERS AND TWENTY
TWENTY SIX CALENDAR WITH
CHANGES.
>> YEAH THIS IS ZACK.
I WILL MOVE TO APPROVE THE
CHANGE CALENDAR
.
I NEVER GET A CALL THE QUESTION
NO VOTE ON IT I CAN SECOND
THANK YOU ALL RIGHT.
>> ALL IN FAVOR I I I I I HATE
PERFECT SO THAT WILL MOVE THAT
MEETING THEY WILL MOVE TO
NOVEMBER 10TH AND I WILL SEND
OUR AGENDA PRIOR AND REMINDER
SO EVERYONE HAS IT OK AND THE
LAST AGENDA TO VOTE FOR IS OUR
COMMITTEE MEETING AGENDA.
SO HERE IS THE AGENDA FOR
TWENTY TWENTY SIX AT THIS TIME
YOU GUYS HAVE NO CONFLICT DATES
WITH ANY CITY HOLIDAYS OR
RECOMMENDED OBSERVANCES.
THE ONLY THING TO NOTE ON HERE
IS THAT AFTER THE JUNE MEETING
AS ALWAYS YOU ALL WILL BE ON
COMMISSION RECESS AND JULY AND
AUGUST SO THERE WILL BE NO
MEETING IN JULY OR AUGUST.
>> SO AT THIS TIME IS THAT
MEETING IS THAT MEETING JUNE
18TH, JUNE 20TH?
NO, IT'S ONLY BECAUSE I
REMEMBER FROM THE SANTA CLAUSE
TO DO SO ON JUNE 18TH, ONE YEAR
OR SO.
YEAH, NOT IT'S ON JUNE 17TH
THIS YEAR.
SO YOU GUYS ARE OK.
>> ALL RIGHT.
I'D LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE TWENTY TWENTY SIX
COMMISSION CALENDAR CHECKING
THAT.
>> OK, ALL IN FAVOR
OF APPROVING THE CALENDAR
PLEASE ON AND SAY I AY AY AY AY
ALL RIGHT CANDY, THE CALENDAR
IS APPROVED.
THANK YOU ALL.
ALL RIGHT.
NEXT ARE THERE ANY
COMMUNICATIONS FOR THE
COMMISSION AT THIS TIME?
ANYTHING ANYBODY WANTS TO BRING
ABOUT BRING FORWARD TO THE
COMMISSION, HAVE A COUPLE
OF QUICK THINGS THAT I HAD.
OH, JUST A REMINDER ON THE
EVOLUTION OF THE PHOTO WE WERE
TALKING ABOUT THAT BEING A
PHOTO POSSIBLY FOR A SOCIAL
MEDIA FACEBOOK, INSTAGRAM
OF THE FUTURE.
THAT WAS ONE OF THE MOTIVATIONS
FOR THAT COMING UP NEXT MONTH.
AND JUST SO THAT THAT'S WE'RE
AWARE OF THAT AND ALSO WE HAD
DISCUSSED PUTTING TOGETHER JUST
A GROUP CONTACT INFORMATION FOR
ALL OF US ON THE COMMISSION
EMAIL PHONE NUMBER, JUST THINGS
LIKE THAT WHATEVER WHERE
COMFORTABLE WITH I'M NOT SURE
IF WE WANTED TO DISCUSS THAT OR
ENCOURAGE EACH OF US TO EMAIL
SO THAT WE HAVE A CONTACT LIST
FOR FIRST COMMISSIONERS.
IT WOULD BE BETWEEN US.
I JUST THOUGHT I'D BRING THAT
UP BEFORE AND THEN THAT'S THANK
YOU FOR BRINGING THAT UP.
YEAH.
YOU GUYS JUST TO JUST TO
PIGGYBACK OFF OF COMMISSIONER
PACARD SO WHEN SAM AND ROB AND
I HAD MET I MEAN I THINK ALL
OF US HAVE EACH OTHER'S
INFORMATION BUT I JUST THINK IT
MIGHT BE NICE TO JUST HAVE A
LIKE A MASTER SHEET SO THAT IF
THERE'S LIKE ANYTHING THAT, YOU
KNOW, COMMISSIONERS WANT TO
TALK ABOUT OR IF THERE'S, YOU
KNOW, SOMETHING THAT, YOU KNOW,
COMMISSIONERS WANT TO, YOU
KNOW, COMMUNICATE AMONG EACH
OTHER ABOUT, I THINK THAT AS
LONG AS WE ARE HOLDING A SEAT
THIS CAN BE A PRIVATE KIND
OF SPREADSHEET TO WHERE PEOPLE
WANT TO SHOOT TEXT TO ONE
ANOTHER TO YOU KNOW, TALK ABOUT
DIFFERENT THINGS.
HOPEFULLY ALL OF US CAN BE OPEN
TO THAT.
I THINK YOU KNOW, I KNOW
PERSONALLY THAT SOMETIMES WHEN
I'M TRYING TO COMMUNICATE WITH
ALL OF YOU TO LIKE LET YOU GUYS
KNOW WHERE I AM ASIDE FROM LIKE
YOU KNOW, DOING IT THROUGH
EMAIL OR DOING IT TO GET US ALL
AT ONE EVENT, SOMETIMES IT CAN
BE CHALLENGING BECAUSE I DON'T
HAVE EVERYONE'S DIRECT CONTACTS
SO I JUST WANTED TO KNOW IF
EVERYBODY WAS OPEN TO THAT
AND
WHAT YOUR QUICK THOUGHTS WERE
THAT THIS IS KENNEDY.
>> I JUST ALSO WANTED TO SAY OR
MENTION THAT THE OTHER
COMMISSIONS I MANAGE ALSO HAVE
TO HAVE A CONTACT SHEET.
SO IF YOU'RE INTERESTED IF
COMMISSIONERS SHOULD LIKE TO
PARTICIPATE I CAN CREATE THAT
SHEET FOR THE COMMISSION AND
THEN SEND IT OUT SO EVERYONE
HAS IT AWESOME.
THANK YOU, KENNEDY.
>> ANY DISCUSSION ON THIS?
ANY THOUGHTS?
>> THIS IS COMMISSIONER MARZAK.
I I THINK IT'S A REALLY GOOD
IDEA.
I SIT ON OTHER BOARDS AND
COMMISSIONS AS WELL AND
SOMETIMES I NEED TO TALK TO
SOMEBODY OR SOMEBODY WANTS TO
FOLLOW AND THEN YOU HAVE TO
FIND THEIR NAME EMBEDDED IN THE
EMAIL THAT GOES OUT TO ALL AND
SOMETIMES IT'S DONE IN A WAY
YOU DON'T SEE THAT INFORMATION.
SO I THINK IT WOULD BE SUPER
HELPFUL FOR US AS WE LEARN TO
BECOME MORE ENGAGED WITH EACH
OTHER AND MORE ACTIVE IN TERMS
OF WORKING IN THE COMMUNITY AND
STUFF LIKE THAT IN THE NEW
INITIATIVES THAT WE HAVE I
FULLY SUPPORT US HAVING A
CONTACT SHEET.
ABSOLUTELY.
KATHLEEN, THANK YOU AND ALSO I
THINK IT WOULD HELP US IN TERMS
OF JUST SOCIAL PLANNING AS
WELL.
I MEAN I'D LOVE FOR US TO DO
LIKE MORE SOCIAL ACTIVITIES
WITH EACH OTHER.
I MEAN I KNOW THAT TIME AND
RESOURCES ARE LIMITED BUT I
JUST WANT TO SAY LIKE FOR THE
RECORD I ACTUALLY ENJOY ALL
OF YOU AS WELL.
SO NICE TO SEE ONE ANOTHER.
>> YOU KNOW, A A SECOND THAT I
AGREE THE THIRD THAT ALSO WELL
THANK YOU KENNEDY FOR
SUGGESTING AND TAKING A LEAD ON
THAT AND I WANT TO THANK YOU
KNOW COMMISSIONER ANCHIN BAUER
AND OF COURSE COMMISSIONER
PACARD FOR REALLY BRINGING THAT
TO THE FOREFRONT AND I LOOK
FORWARD TO HAVING ACCESS TO THE
CODE .
I CONTACT LIST AND THEN
PLANNING SOME FUN THINGS
WHETHER IT'S A KODAI LUNCH OR
WHETHER IT'S A KODAI YOU SPRING
FLING OR WHATEVER THAT MAY BE
TO GET US ALL TOGETHER TO DO
SOME SOCIAL THINGS AND I'M SURE
WE CAN TALK A LITTLE BIT ABOUT
STUFF BUT IT'LL BE LESS I WOULD
SAY BUSINESS AND MORE LIKE HEY
HOW IS EVERYBODY DOING?
BUT THEN ALSO WHEN IF THERE IS
CITY EVENTS THAT WE CAN
COORDINATE AND BE AT SUCH AS
VISIONS SUCH AS THE ADA
CELEBRATION EXCITED TO JUST
HAVE ACCESS TO THAT SO THAT WE
CAN ALL BE A LITTLE BIT MORE
COORDINATED.
>> THANK YOU.
I GOT AN ANNOUNCEMENT AND A
COMMENT TO ANNOUNCE MANY IS
THAT I MAY BE IF ANYONE COMES
UP NEXT MONTH AT OUR AND OUR
MEETING THAT I CAN CATCH A RIDE
FROM, I MIGHT LIKE THAT NOT
BECAUSE I CAN'T TAKE THE BUS
BECAUSE I MIGHT WANT TO START
THE TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
MEETING ON THE BUS AND THAT'S
SOMETHING I JUST MAY BE ASKING
IN DECEMBER.
>> THAT'S THE ANNOUNCEMENT AND
THE OTHER THING IS WE COULD
ALSO DO THE THERE'S NO REASON
WE CAN'T DO IT.
>> WE HAVE IN THE PAST DONE
COMMITTEE MEETINGS DOWNTOWN OR
SOMETHING LIKE AT A
COFFEE SHOP, GET TOGETHER, DO
COMMITTEE MEETING, HAVE A CUP
OF COFFEE AND WHATEVER YOUR
BARGHUTI WHATEVER YOUR CHOSEN
BEVERAGE AND FOOD IS AND EAT
OVER THAT, YOU KNOW.
ABSOLUTELY.
THANK YOU LARRY.
AND YES, WE'LL KEEP IN MIND
ABOUT EATING SOME TRANSIT
ASSISTANCE AS WELL AND I JUST
ENCOURAGE THAT IF THERE ARE ANY
COMMISSIONERS THAT ARE OPEN TO
ASSISTING OR HAVE ANY IDEAS,
PLEASE LET MYSELF AND OR LARRY
KNOW.
HEY LARRY, IT'S RACHEL.
LARRY AND I ARE ACTUALLY
NEIGHBORS SO LIKE LESS THAN A
BLOCK AWAY SO DO YOU HAVE
TRANSPORTATION MEETING ON SITE
AFTER THIS OR IS IT NOT ON
SITE?
>> OK, I CAN'T DO THAT.
>> I'M SORRY IT'S BACK HOME.
OH PERFECT.
SO I'LL I'LL GET YOU THERE AND
BACK BOTH WAYS.
I JUST DIDN'T KNOW IF YOU
NEEDED TRANSPORTATION SO I CAN
FOR THE TRANSPORTATION I DO I
COULD TAKE THE BUS DOWN THERE
IT'S JUST GETTING BACK BECAUSE
LIKE I SAID I'D LIKE TO GET
BACK IN TIME AND I WAS ACTUALLY
SORT OF THINKING OF YOU BUT I
REVIVAL RACHEL I APPRECIATE THE
FOOD IS GOOD.
I'M HAPPY TO DRIVE YOU BOTH
WAYS, LARRY.
>> OK, OK BETWEEN US.
THANK YOU.
>> ALL RIGHT.
IT'S JUST I JUST I DIDN'T WANT
TO START THE YOU KNOW BECAUSE
SOMETIMES STANDING OUT THERE
WAITING FOR THE BUS BY THE
TRUCK BY THE TIME THE MEETING
IS MIGHT BE PRETTY QUICK AND IT
MIGHT BE GETTING OFF THE BUS.
I'M OUT OF THE MEETING SO I
REALLY WOULD NOT LIKE TO DO
THAT WILL AVOID THAT.
>> I GUESS I'M NOT SURE I WANT
ALL THE PEOPLE ON THE BUS AT
ALL.
>> MY INTERPRETATION IS THEY
MIGHT BE ANGRY OVER THE ROADS
THESE DAYS.
ALL RIGHT.
WELL, ALL RIGHT.
HOPEFULLY YOU GUYS CAN CONNECT
OFFLINE AND GET THAT TAKEN CARE
OF BUT THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
HAWKINS.
ABSOLUTELY.
AND JUST WANTED TO KEEP THINGS
MOVING ALONG.
IS THERE ANY OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS OR ANNOUNCEMENTS
?
ALL RIGHT.
I DO NOT SEE ANY AT THIS TIME.
SO THIS AT THIS POINT I WOULD
LIKE TO IS THERE A MOTION TO
ADJOURN?
>> I'M GOING TO ADJOURN.
ALL RIGHT.
I WILL SECOND ALL IN FAVOR.
ALL IN FAVOR.
EXCUSE ME OF ADJOURNING
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19TH AT
FIVE FIFTY EIGHT P.M. EASTERN
TIME PLEASE ON MUTE AND SAY AY
AY AY AY AY AY.
ALL RIGHT EVERYONE MEETING IS
ADJOURNED AND WE WILL BE IN
TOUCH.
AND I LOOK FORWARD TO WORKING
WITH YOU ZACH TO RECORDING STOP